Mitch Lederman: Is it normal that Is it normal that almost everybody screens are blank.
Mitch Lederman: Well it's always nice to talk to people.
Mitch Lederman: you're breathing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: really appreciate your smiling face.
Mitch Lederman: You know it hurts the ego when we see only five of 50.
Mitch Lederman: Actually likeness.
Mitch Lederman: much appreciated by everybody, all right so we're in the homestretch for you guys congratulations, this is great, just a few more weeks, you can finally take some deep breaths and then get on with the real fun the rest of your career and so forth, so what we're here tonight.
Mitch Lederman: is to try and set you up and get you out on the road, with the right messaging the way to sell yourself now you're you know when we first met, it was the summer of what 20.
Mitch Lederman: Right no summer of 19 was the summer of 19 and was like okay i've got this journey ahead of me I want to make this transition I don't know that much about analytics.
Mitch Lederman: I don't know how to sell myself I don't know where to go or anything like that.
Mitch Lederman: I know a number of you have participated over the last two years and different programming that we've offered.
Mitch Lederman: So you know you guys now need to start turning that into you know into real action sort of wanting to tonight you just quickly go through some basic.
Mitch Lederman: A communication mostly interviews protocols, but you can really use it in anything you can use it, you know throughout all different parts of your journey.
Mitch Lederman: The networking events, whether they're formal or informal network events just talking to someone over the phone running into somebody you know online at a grocery store.
Mitch Lederman: or being in that grilling you know, in a formal interview but it's all about getting your message across, in the most effective manner, you know, I was it was funny I was talking, today, to a group of nba coaches across the nation to working group them in.
Mitch Lederman: And one of them was was saying to me that they do the programs, and then they find that nobody's coming anymore.
Mitch Lederman: And they actually admitted and they said well you know, they must not be coming because they must not be feeling i'm getting my message across to them, and I said.
Mitch Lederman: You know that's funny you say that way, because it was too late to the students to I say, if you can't tell the interview of why you should hire me.
Mitch Lederman: And they're never going to hire you so we got so we're going to focus on tonight as always i'm just jump in with questions.
Mitch Lederman: I don't really look at the chat while i'm doing this, if someone does put a question in the chat if.
Mitch Lederman: Anybody sees it, and would just be nice enough to let me know and just read out the question love to do that, but I just want it to be interactive okay so we're going to talk about communicating your value proposition.
Mitch Lederman: we're going to have a couple of phases of this will talk about stories.
Mitch Lederman: Because any of you who know me know it's all about storytelling you guys going to be able to spend those yarns about who you are where you've been.
Mitch Lederman: And most importantly, how you're going to add value to the new employer will talk about the star in the our star format quickly then we're going to go into the impact model.
Mitch Lederman: It should give you some good boundaries and some objectives for every time you're talking again whether it's an interview response, or just even trying to sell yourself in a regular conversation.
Mitch Lederman: And we're going to go through an exercise, I will i'll ask you guys i'll give you some interview questions and we asked you what is the question behind the question.
Mitch Lederman: Was it really mean you know if I asked you, is it raining now well I don't want.
Mitch Lederman: to know, is it raining now want to know a little bit more, I want to know what the weather conditions are.
Mitch Lederman: I want to know why you think that it might be raining or come start raining in two hours or things that that I want to know those types of things get deeper in it and then we'll wrap it up with some final thoughts all right so it's all about stories.
Mitch Lederman: You know anybody who's interviewed should have known or seen it's about a story the days of people just saying, well, I have this knowledge or I can do this or I know X y&z they're gone.
Mitch Lederman: Almost every question you're asked, including, believe it or not, the most popular interview question of tell me about yourself.
Mitch Lederman: You still have to have stories, because when you tell a story that's when you're telling me you've actually done this you've lived it it's not textbook.
Mitch Lederman: that's going to be really tricky for some of you, because you're going to have some questions are going to be analytics oriented and analytics base.
Mitch Lederman: And you may not have done that in your current position or previous positions, so what you need to do is you're going to need to be able to tie together.
Mitch Lederman: Past experiences and stories with the analytics and find in those stories and finding your experiences, what can I do, that I can actually pointed out a data aspect of it or an analysis aspect of it.
Mitch Lederman: You might not have known about this, two years ago, when you first started the Program.
Mitch Lederman: But now you have different tools you've been equipped to your program with the different aspects of business, whether it's something that's marketing related or HR human resource related.
Mitch Lederman: or something operational supply to justice, you got to pull all of these together now and make your stories really robust so that means the time.
Mitch Lederman: To think about your stories is not when you're in the interview, and the question is asked the time is well before start preparing and that's what we're going to go through.
Mitch Lederman: Some of the stuff about question behind the question so they want to know about your work experience it could be academic, you may need to use academic projects.
Mitch Lederman: Especially if you are a student who really didn't do much number crunching or analytics or data analysis before you came in.
Mitch Lederman: To the program you're gonna have to rely a little bit more maybe than someone else on a project that you did, whether it was an individual project during a program or a group project.
Mitch Lederman: Maybe it was a competition that you were involved in but that's Okay, so you think about those insert cataloging them.
Mitch Lederman: Sometimes we've done things in the volunteer world Okay, but we've got to have the stories what are they looking for.
Mitch Lederman: When you solve the problem okay everybody wants people who can solve problems that's probably the number one skill they're looking for for people challenges.
Mitch Lederman: When you overcame a challenge anybody want to venture a guess good bad educated not educated of why I care about a time you overcame a challenge.
Mitch Lederman: Was that matter to me in an.
interview.
Charles Swanson: it's sort of a measure of your resiliency and whether or not when you're going gets tough you get going.
Mitch Lederman: Okay resiliency good.
Mitch Lederman: Good getting going when there's there's things are tough yeah absolutely it's about also knowing about how you face these challenges, how do you structure, a response.
Mitch Lederman: When you come up upon something, especially if it's a challenge, an area you've never seen before, or do you fold up your cards and start running for other people to help you do it.
Mitch Lederman: Do you try to map out a plan, then get your support, do you go look for the support yourself first and try to took to learn or develop the plan to overcome the obstacles and challenges so Those are the things that doing when you made a mistake okay.
Mitch Lederman: People want to know they want to see you military they want to know that they want to see that you have had done self reflection.
Mitch Lederman: That you can you know it's not about fessing up to a mistake, but they even thought about the mistake and you learn from it, because every mistake is a growth opportunity.
Mitch Lederman: So if you can't show me you grew from a mistake, well then i'm going to worry, you know that you've probably hit your ceiling your capacity you're not letting yourself or you're not able to expand yourself.
Mitch Lederman: When you work as a leader, so this is a question that's going to be really tough for some of you, because I won't put anyone on the spot.
Mitch Lederman: But i'm going to guess in this group there's probably a number of people who right now are saying i've never let anyone.
Mitch Lederman: i've never been i've never been a supervisor i've never been a manager i've never had a team or anything like that.
Mitch Lederman: Right okay well guess what every one of you have leadership stories So how do you have a leadership story if you've never been a formal manager supervisor and Vice President team.
Mitch Lederman: let's share some thoughts.
Mitch Lederman: How do you show leadership.
Charles Swanson: Well leadership by.
Charles Swanson: girl, so it goes beyond.
Charles Swanson: People but it's creating your vision identifying what their priorities are and it's also on being an example and role model.
Mitch Lederman: yeah very well said very well said what happens is we get hung up on titles who say I never had the title, so I never was a leader.
Mitch Lederman: Well, I will make a bold statement and say that any of you who today spoke to anybody else you just had a conversation with somebody.
Mitch Lederman: You likely influence them in some manner, whether it was intellectual influence possibly was physical influence.
Mitch Lederman: Possibly was directional or anything like that that's leadership, because at the end of the day, what is leadership.
Mitch Lederman: it's about influencing and persuading people guiding them getting people to follow to move forward on a certain goal, or on a path towards a goal.
Mitch Lederman: So we've all been leaders so start thinking about, especially those of you who've never had a formal.
Mitch Lederman: Management position start thinking about projects you've worked on other times mentoring when you've mentored a new employee anything like that, because those are examples of leadership.
Mitch Lederman: We always wondering about when you work with a team when are you going to be able to play in the same sandbox as the rest of the people in our team and not take everybody spoons and shovels and things like that.
Mitch Lederman: And, believe it or not, sometimes they want to know that you did something interesting okay.
Mitch Lederman: You know, and this one becomes challenging I have to tell you, I find this is the most challenging for people who come with accounting backgrounds, because I hear so many times, from the account I just did I just did.
Mitch Lederman: I did this general ledger I did this report I this did this income statement or things of that and I go okay so maybe that wasn't interesting.
Mitch Lederman: But wasn't interested in the analysis and wasn't interested in the time you found an inconsistency.
Mitch Lederman: and were able to dive into and determine if something was not being accounted for correctly or things like that.
Mitch Lederman: Or the time you came up with a new process to automate something and make it easier to close the books those things too.
Mitch Lederman: So we want to start thinking about all of these buckets and making sure we're ready.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, because, as you guys hit that interview trail that networking trail, these are the things people they were looking for okay let's stop asking any questions or anything at this moment, good bad or indifferent, you know me i'm an open book.
Mitch Lederman: Right, we all good, by the way, James screamer I that's an interesting background.
Mitch Lederman: there.
Kramer, James: But it was kind of crappy myself but yeah I mean.
Kramer, James: I logged out I just got logged out of the.
Kramer, James: zoom or a couple of weeks ago and I just never logged back and I actually just logged in and saw that was on there I just didn't want to leave class again to change it.
Mitch Lederman: This way, I just interesting I didn't know they had the background I guess you could find anything all right let's move on no questions so good so we're organized team to do star I maybe have seen star before.
Nick Luthman: Yes, alright.
Mitch Lederman: So i'm going to put some of you on the spot, but i'm not gonna call you by name, and when asked because we've gone through this when anyone's ever met with me and talk about star should know this one.
Mitch Lederman: from zero to 100% of your response, how much time do we spend on the action.
Mitch Lederman: If you give it to me from five decimal places i'll give you double points.
Charles Swanson: I would say that that's probably the most important part because that's where you're describing how you'll handle a particular situation so i'm going to say, maybe 60 to 80%.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, good anyone else good logic.
yeah.
Mitch Lederman: Okay.
Jim Clark: Good morning.
Mitch Lederman: Well, the, the answer is actually the average of what was said it's 70% so we say you should use about 70% of your response is on the action, because this was notably stated it's all about what did you do.
Mitch Lederman: The situation and the task, those are only for context, so we start that off with that well here, the situation was.
Mitch Lederman: We were having a lot of defects on the manufacturing line and nobody really knew what part of the process, where it was occurring.
Mitch Lederman: I was tasked with looking through the data through the different steps up until the boxing to see where we were starting to see the misalignment between.
Mitch Lederman: Quality that's it 20% because it may not be relevant to anybody the specific task you did or the situation, but you just have to get it for context.
Mitch Lederman: So if we have 20% for situation and tasks and 74 action that leaves us with 10% result, why is it only 10% of the time on the results.
Mitch Lederman: i'll tell you it's really simple you got to give a result, people love numbers, they want to hear it.
Mitch Lederman: But nobody nobody's going to ever really have a challenge you as long as the result sounds somewhat reasonable So if you go and you say yeah I was a project lead on $100,000 budget.
Mitch Lederman: And I was able to bring it in $6,000 under budget at 94,000.
Mitch Lederman: Get reasonable i'm sure we're not going to grill you and go oh prove that to me show me that, but if you came in and said yeah I lead $100,000 project, and I brought it in $99,000 in the budget, I only spent $1,000.
Mitch Lederman: Ah, then i'm going to grow you there's like that doesn't make any sense that you could come in 99% under.
Mitch Lederman: Especially not on something that side so that's why we only spend 10%, but we need to give numbers because the brain is really wired.
Mitch Lederman: For those numbers Okay, then we love it on resumes and we love it verbally, we got to hear that so we're going to talk about the situation, the tasks 20% so we'll give a two minute response.
Mitch Lederman: that's about 25 maybe 30 seconds action 70% so about 80 to 90 seconds, the bulk of it, and the result 1015 seconds or so all right, make sure you have different experiences i've mentioned this before and programs may have mentioned it here.
Mitch Lederman: You need to have a minimally 10 stories that you can tell and i'm going to show you some buckets where to put them in a little bit, but you got a minimum of 1010 stories to tell.
Mitch Lederman: If you're ever interviewing with Amazon, you need to have 28 different stores, because they have 14 leadership principles.
Mitch Lederman: And they like to sometimes grill you on those and you need to have two stories on each but choose different ones you never want to repeat the same story.
Mitch Lederman: Unless you're really going in different directions.
Mitch Lederman: So if you had a really great story, and one of them was showing this is was about and I can go in the angle to the left, and I can talk about my analytic skills, I take it to the right, I can talk about conflict resolution.
Mitch Lederman: that's Okay, we can do that, but we can't use the same story twice if it was one was about analytics and the other one was about modeling to close to close shows to not be multi dimensional so you use a variety of experiences okay any questions about star.
Mitch Lederman: Because this is, this is the Bible for interviews.
Mitch Lederman: Okay now there's a variation which is really powerful if you have great numbers to give that's called the our star that's what we're bringing the results, up to the front.
Mitch Lederman: So instead of saying, the situation was like I did in the early one, I would say is, let me tell you about the time I was able to isolate and help reduce our.
Mitch Lederman: malfunctions on our on our manufacturing lines from 7% on a monthly basis down to 3%.
Mitch Lederman: boom now go into the situation, the test, the situation was we had been having these malfunctions, but nobody really knew where we're in the process that we're going on.
Mitch Lederman: The reason I brought that result up to the front was because if you give me something really good.
Mitch Lederman: i'm all ears you've got me you've it's like throwing the line into the water and having the biggest fattest juiciest worm on the end i'm there immediately and you're going to catch my attention.
Mitch Lederman: But we got to have a good good quantitative results and we got a good story to back it up.
Mitch Lederman: So, but that's a really powerful technique, because if you bring the result, up to the front and then you just repeat it or reiterate it on the back end okay any questions on the methodology chatting and talking.
Mitch Lederman: And you notice, you can do this in a regular conversation might be less formal.
Mitch Lederman: But you can still do the same thing if you're networking with someone and they asked you a question know when you think about it in a networking event, if somebody asks you a question.
Mitch Lederman: You almost have to treat it like it's an interview except it's a little more casual but it's still has to be something where you leave them going oh wow that's really smart personal by that's really cool thing that they did okay any questions.
Mitch Lederman: All right, how many of you have ever heard of the impact.
Mitch Lederman: for responding.
Mitch Lederman: All right, good so we've got something new for it so David orville is a is a an MBA and business consultant he worked at bain in his career think he's a wharton MBA.
Mitch Lederman: If I recall and David has came up with this impact and it's really cool because if you think about it, it gives you six different buckets.
Mitch Lederman: To start thinking about your stories about what you're going to tell so you want to have at least one if not two stories.
Mitch Lederman: For each of these So the first one is individual contributions.
Mitch Lederman: I want to know what did you do I want to know a story or two about what made you so great, how did you really add value to that company.
Mitch Lederman: Or what did you do, that really, really was a soul soul contribution versus a team want to know about your management or leadership.
Mitch Lederman: we've got to have stories, but that and I already talked to you about leadership, think about those those are stories where you're going to go to show how you influence other people.
Mitch Lederman: tied to that and somewhat related so there's a little overlap is persuasion, because leadership at the end of the day is influencing and persuading people.
Mitch Lederman: But you got to have a solid story about persuasion, one of my favorite questions I asked in practice interviews on Persuasion is is tell me about a time you had to make a decision that was unpopular with the group.
Mitch Lederman: So what do you think i'm asking about when that question.
Mitch Lederman: Was that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Coffee resolution.
Mitch Lederman: He.
Mitch Lederman: Yes, we could relate it to conflict resolution anybody else have some other phones.
And if.
Mitch Lederman: It was given up.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, so when I asked the question, like that what I really want to know is about a decision you made with people will rip roaring mad at you.
Mitch Lederman: And somehow you persuaded them and they became happy about it well you know what in hindsight that's the greatest one.
Mitch Lederman: greatest decision that's what that's what a question like that about it's about persuading it's getting showing how you lead people.
Mitch Lederman: that's why there's overlap between management leadership and the persuasion analytical thinking by this time you guys better be really be solid on this one.
Mitch Lederman: Especially coming out of the program that has the word analytics in it, but know being being serious you're going to want to know how you use data to make decisions.
Mitch Lederman: There is not a position literally that i've seen in a couple of years now, where there's not some component where they're looking to see how people.
Mitch Lederman: Think analytically create models these could be soft miles, it can be hard models qualitative quantitative but they do modeling to help.
Mitch Lederman: frame and come up with solutions they want to know something about challenges you've overcome we talked about that earlier obstacles that you've overcome here's a hint of a way to think about challenges and obstacles.
Mitch Lederman: Anybody in if anybody's in sales they'll appreciate this but I always, whenever I was hiring when I was back running the executive search firms, we always ask a simple question to every candidate, the question was.
Mitch Lederman: Tell us about what an obstacle is and off, we would hear such great stories people give us.
Mitch Lederman: webster's definition of it from the dictionary I don't know how they knew it off the top my head, but anyway, and just other things, and we were really looking for.
Mitch Lederman: A one word answer, and that was an obstacle was an opportunity that sort of challenges if you come up upon a challenge.
Mitch Lederman: Better show the people that you grabbed it seize the moment and you saw that was an opportunity for us to do something different, or to overcome or something like that.
Mitch Lederman: I want you to keep thinking that's What challenges are about challenges aren't was be me for the progressives late or something that they were like oh.
Mitch Lederman: Well, this this came the system crashed, and we were supposed to roll it out two days later.
Mitch Lederman: And you know, the first thought people had was we were going to be two weeks late now because of this, and it was like no there was no way we were gonna let that happen in fact.
Mitch Lederman: This was a challenge to make it happen even earlier than our two days from the deadline and so forth frame it in a positive way.
Mitch Lederman: And, of course, you want to know about teamwork that all comes down to culture that gets back to the sandbox are you going to play nicely in the sandbox and I want to know.
Mitch Lederman: A question that I love to ask people when it comes to one of the Amazon leadership principles about teamwork is is tell me about how a Co worker benefited from working with you.
Mitch Lederman: simple question, oh no how you made that person who is sitting in the office of the cubicle to your left to right better and why it was the best thing for them to actually run across you and work with you.
Mitch Lederman: that's if you can answer that that's teamwork right there, there is no better epitome of teamwork than I was able to help somebody else grow and things like that so think about impact, make sure you got your stories there okay any questions.
Mitch Lederman: Alright, so now we're going to get into the fun well you're the question behind the question now it gets really interactive so everybody you're ready there we go.
Mitch Lederman: So the first question we're just going to think about is a question that you may get related to the position you're interviewing for anybody ever get questions that are related to the position they've been beautiful.
Mitch Lederman: Out of the head anybody.
Fireman, Karen: yeah yeah.
Mitch Lederman: that's great okay just testing make sure everyone's still awake great Thank you Karen for that okay so here's the question.
Mitch Lederman: What do you think is most important characteristic of a successful person in this position, so your doesn't matter what position you're interviewing for for us right now, why would I asked you that question.
Mitch Lederman: What do I really care about what you think is important most important characteristic isn't it really just what I think.
Mitch Lederman: What I what I asked them.
Mitch Lederman: What what am I really looking for.
Matt McGuinness: Your understanding of what the position requires.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, so i'm looking to see what you as the candidate your understanding of what it looks on the position okay good.
Shadi Kilani: You also take a look at how they think get a glimpse of how they think and how they organize my thoughts.
Mitch Lederman: Oh yeah that's a good one i'm getting inside their mind of how they think how they've broken down the position and the responsibilities and or the details okay that's good that's I can get some insights into your mind from that anyone else.
yeah.
Fireman, Karen: You also want to.
Fireman, Karen: get an IP do they really get it what's needed for this job.
Mitch Lederman: what's needed yes that's a great one exactly and how would How would I know what How would you actually get that insight into what's needed.
Lee Rainwater: Side just if, for some reason they don't ask you this question, this would be an excellent question for today, I asked the interviewer.
Mitch Lederman: it's a good question, yes it is um I if I was asking the interview I would probably frame it slightly differently more like you know, in your experiences.
Mitch Lederman: Successful people who've been able to master this position and grow, you know what characteristics today bring but yes, you could absolutely use this on the backside.
Mitch Lederman: Alright let's see what we've got here, so I think this was mentioned, you understand the requirements and the expected outcomes of the position.
Mitch Lederman: For those of you who've been in my programs before you know I like the word outcomes versus requirements, why do I care that you know about the expected outcomes.
Charles Swanson: In case, your heart being hired to produce outcomes.
Mitch Lederman: it's really that simple, and it would be nice to know that you know what they are the record versus the requirements okay requirements are just.
Mitch Lederman: Details that's all they are but it's really about the outcomes and how would you ever learn about what the expected outcomes are.
Mitch Lederman: What would be the number one way, would you would learn if you're going to interview for a position, would you get it from the job description.
Shadi Kilani: Sometimes, but they're not usually they're not always well or they don't they don't all those described with all this and a lot of you know, legal stuff goes in there and I think you probably do your research and see similar rules.
Mitch Lederman: Okay.
Shadi Kilani: district standards.
Shadi Kilani: UK can you.
Shadi Kilani: talk to people who are in that position or.
Mitch Lederman: whoa there we go say that one again talk to people who run acquisition.
Shadi Kilani: or network, you know people.
Mitch Lederman: say there is that magic n word networking absolutely the best way is to talk to someone who's done that role.
Mitch Lederman: Because if you can go in the interview, and you can start talking about outcomes versus tasks, you are miles ahead of anybody else who's going to be talking.
Mitch Lederman: And i'm going to look at that and go that's really cool because that's what I care about on i'm not hiring you because you can do the job.
Mitch Lederman: i'm going to hire you because you could you can do it and add value to my organization well to do that, you gotta know the outcomes.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, great let's see what else you possess the characteristics, to be successful you're going to have to super impose yourself on to that position, and do you have the position being hard or soft skills dependent.
Mitch Lederman: What are people's thoughts about that.
Mitch Lederman: opposition's today hard or soft still dependent which which way is the scales tip.
Matt McGuinness: Going more towards soft skills for everything.
Mitch Lederman: yeah we got to vote for soft skills.
McKinney, Luke: I would say about 5050 of.
Amanda DePelsMaeker: Sensitive yeah.
Mitch Lederman: 50 offensive Okay, a couple of fences okay anybody voting for hard.
Zuberi, Bilal: I would say in text tech industry it's hard to skills either you know your stuff your personality could be anything it's irrelevant.
Mitch Lederman: If you know you and I have noticed is a shift.
Jordan Gross: It.
Mitch Lederman: A couple years ago it was really heavily soft skills was all about corporate culture you got to fit into my organization on to make sure you're going to play Nice and all that then the world.
Mitch Lederman: started as you guys know because you immersed in it started understanding the analytical side the modeling side that there was so much information.
Mitch Lederman: Out there, that was not being used, not being processed properly and was certainly wasn't being analyzed are evaluated and then turned into actionable.
Mitch Lederman: solutions and that's when we started, seeing it shifting more towards hard skills and I would say now, it said best of 5050 soft the hard skills.
Mitch Lederman: But probably pushing now a little bit more towards the hard skills even you know the Apocalypse is on us when the oil and gas industry has finally.
Mitch Lederman: adopted analytics and is realizing, we need to use the data they will be last one of the last industries to hold out on using it, and such so.
Mitch Lederman: Hard skills now are getting their do, which means you want to be able to talk, especially in the program you're coming out of about some really.
Mitch Lederman: Innovative and or cutting edge types of analysis models you've created and what they lead to.
Mitch Lederman: And if you don't have it in the real world talk about a project talk about a competition.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, you might not be able to go as far as if you had done it in the workplace.
Mitch Lederman: But it's still I want to know those details don't be afraid to talk about the details if it's about hard skills and your audience is someone you know you know really can relate to it alright any questions about this, we will all spot on at the beginning, is great.
Mitch Lederman: we're good okay let's go to the next one, this one.
Karis Jochen: Question if you don't mind.
Mitch Lederman: Of course I don't mind, though, who are you.
Karis Jochen: My name is this is charisse speaking.
Mitch Lederman: You have a camera that works.
Karis Jochen: I, I do not, or I.
Mitch Lederman: Have kids in the background, will excuse you.
Okay.
Karis Jochen: So my question is.
Karis Jochen: do so, you talked about the fact that we need to, we need to talk about outcomes, rather than just skills.
Karis Jochen: And if you're interviewing for a position, can you give a few examples on how we can talk about outcomes without just promising things out, we really don't know.
Karis Jochen: That we can provide value they understand that we need to provide value to the company, but if i'm in an interview I don't want to make promises I I don't really know that.
Karis Jochen: I can act upon it.
Mitch Lederman: Okay yeah no that's a great question so like i'll give you one thats related to what to what I do Okay, so if i'm hiring a coach.
Mitch Lederman: One of the outcomes obviously from coaching is that our students one graduate with a strong or a good understanding of how to manage your career to.
Mitch Lederman: They graduate with gainful employment and that's a little harder, sometimes in the working professional groups, because not all of you are looking immediately to change your positions.
Mitch Lederman: But or things like that, so our two outcomes would be that we would want to see those to that students who graduated with a good understanding of how to manage your career going forward and that we were getting.
Mitch Lederman: good enough and strong enough outcomes that would help maintain or continue as we had been doing over the last few years.
Mitch Lederman: and keep increasing in terms of our stature on a national basis among all of our masters programs in terms of the rankings.
Mitch Lederman: So that would be you would tell me, I know that's one of the goals, what are the outcomes here is is that's what we want to get out of a coach.
Mitch Lederman: Now let me tell you how I can contribute to that by telling you about some of my experiences and what i've done.
Mitch Lederman: So now you've told me, you know what the outcome is and now you're going to tell me how your experiences will guide or are relatable and should help me.
Mitch Lederman: And my team and our organization reach those outcomes I don't want you to sit there saying Oh, and I promise you 100% and blowing and for anyone I coach.
Mitch Lederman: No you're right that's over promising, but I would what I wonder now here is how do you coach what's your philosophy what's your style.
Mitch Lederman: What techniques, do you believe work really well that's how you would integrate take the outcomes and then tie your experiences to them does that make sense.
Karis Jochen: yeah That was really helpful, thank you for that.
Okay.
Mitch Lederman: But if you had never known what the outcomes I expected her if you didn't know that.
Mitch Lederman: The rating rankings were really important in there, for your contribution by teaching the students and walking with them and getting them up to that level if you didn't know that, then you can never vented up okay great question anyone else okay so let's go into skills, here we go.
Mitch Lederman: Tell me about a time use data to make a decision and influence others.
Mitch Lederman: What what impact letters, could we fit a story in on this one.
Mitch Lederman: And I am PA CT which ones fit possibly.
Mitch Lederman: On go back to remind you have that that's impact.
Charles Swanson: persuasion.
persuasion.
Mitch Lederman: Okay persuasion good That certainly is one that should be at the forefront, what else.
Charles Swanson: analytics.
Mitch Lederman: analytics absolutely is another one.
Shadi Kilani: leadership.
Mitch Lederman: Leadership yep there's one.
Mitch Lederman: could be challenged.
Mitch Lederman: could be teamwork can be any of the I impact that's the beauty of impact so many of your story is going to fit into several of the the buckets of impact.
Mitch Lederman: that's why I introduced that and I want you to keep thinking about that So what do I so we've gone through that so let's see what we really asking here.
Mitch Lederman: Are you a leader, a number cruncher or both well that picks up on the on the management, the M management or leadership and impact it picks up on the analytics.
Mitch Lederman: Probably picks up on the problem solving challenges, all of these persuasion, all of these but that's that's what I want to know you think either is better being a leader number cruncher or both is either better.
Charles Swanson: depends on the position that you're.
Charles Swanson: Trying to obtain.
Mitch Lederman: Exactly perfect answer to all situational, which means we got to know what the outcomes are and what they're looking for, can you show real APP world applications.
Mitch Lederman: This gets back to what I said earlier, now to be thinking about.
Mitch Lederman: it's not a textbook well we learn this theory and we learn that you can do this type of a table and this type of a synthesis data synthesis to do it.
Mitch Lederman: I don't care because all it shows is that you went to a class, I want to know how you applied it and so forth, and I need to know.
Mitch Lederman: what differentiates you, and what will differentiate you is, if you can show more of the impacts letters and someone else, so if someone else can only show one you can show for that's probably going to differentiate you.
Mitch Lederman: So again, you notice all of these questions they start becoming holistic Okay, they become listed in broad base.
Mitch Lederman: Alright, any questions about that we got two more categories.
Mitch Lederman: We all good.
Mitch Lederman: Right now we're going to ask you i'm going to ask you a question about my company.
Mitch Lederman: Why do I even care what you think about my company.
Charles Swanson: Well it'll let them know whether or not you've done your homework and whether or not you thought about how you can make a contribution to the company.
Mitch Lederman: yeah that's great homework contributions it's all about networking absolutely So the question is, why do you want to work for us.
Mitch Lederman: So what's the most popular answer we get.
Mitch Lederman: Believe it or not people still give answers like because I hear you're a great company to work for and you take really good care of your people.
Mitch Lederman: My gonna hire you own maybe if i'm a charity.
Mitch Lederman: And i'm feeling terrible to you i'll hire you because you you, like me, you heard good things and i'll never forget a a an MBA student.
Mitch Lederman: he's now going to be three years this three years this December and we worked God for a couple of sessions, on the one question of why Exxon Mobil.
Mitch Lederman: And all he kept coming back to us, he has friends work in there.
Mitch Lederman: And it's a great environment and they take care of their people and there's good growth and and then also I kept going, why would I there's no reason there at all for me to hire you and finally.
Mitch Lederman: I had them go dig into their corporate relations page their investor relations page.
Mitch Lederman: and start looking at all of the things that you would never see on their normal website on the traditional website.
Mitch Lederman: But all the cool initiatives they had, and he uncovered this whole world of green technology that he had no idea that Exxon Mobil was even thinking about, let alone investing hundreds of millions of dollars in.
Mitch Lederman: And it changed his whole narrative of being able to talk to them.
Mitch Lederman: about them, not just as a giant Oil and Gas Company that employs many, many people and pays well and takes care of its people to.
Mitch Lederman: Show talking about their corporate citizen citizenry if that's a word Okay, and what they're doing to not only add value to shareholders, but to do it in a responsible way.
Mitch Lederman: And these are the things we want to know about so it's not about just oh it's a good culture so anybody else what, why do you want to work for us what am I looking to learn.
Karen Fireman: You want to tell them that you can make a difference that you're going to improve their company you're going to you're you're going to apply your skills and and make it better.
Mitch Lederman: So Karen just hit on something very interesting and that's a great point, because what when when when she gave that answer to, why do you want to work for us, she brought in one of the reasons is because i'm going to help you.
Mitch Lederman: So she almost flipped the script on which is great, because I want to know that too it's not only went when it's, why do you want to work for us it's not just watching it for Mitch.
Mitch Lederman: that's not why they're asking it, I want to hear.
Mitch Lederman: what's in it for me the company from Mitch as well, so one of the things I want to know is how much do you know about the company in the industry because that's going to show me how much you actually care, and this is a differentiator between are you looking for a career or job.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, if you can tell me a lot about the company a lot about the industry, I know you've really taken the time you're committed.
Mitch Lederman: And this is some way you want to be i'll also be able to feel your passion, or lack of passion which will lead me to are you looking for a career afternoon opportunity or a job.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, we hate hiring people who are looking for jobs Okay, because they typically don't stay, but when it's a career opportunity they're going to stay.
Mitch Lederman: And, did you research, the company always have to research, the company, I want to know that you didn't just one night at 11 o'clock find me on a job board hit submit it looks cool to work for this company.
Mitch Lederman: I want to know that you really will be invested in us because we're gonna invest a lot of money and time in you okay last type of question is about you to question about the self about who you are so let's look at that question.
Mitch Lederman: How would you handle a situation that you nothing about prior to getting involved.
Mitch Lederman: what's the scenario here and why would I asked you that.
Karen Fireman: you're always going to come up with stuff that you don't know that you never came about came across and as a leader, you have to solve that you have to come up with a plan you have to create things utilize help you know reach out to people dig in learn more you have to show them that.
yeah.
Stephanie Pollock: medication and resolution as well.
Mitch Lederman: So that one again.
Stephanie Pollock: Conflict mitigation and resolution yeah.
Mitch Lederman: That could be part of it as well, both both fit in very well anyone else.
Wright, Beth: will be in a new situation at your new job so don't give them an idea of what to be like on your first day.
Mitch Lederman: yeah absolutely it's it's new just think about that every time you go into a new position.
Mitch Lederman: And every sometimes every day in a new position or more times than less during a week you're going to come up with something new look, I see this every day, every time I talk to a student to different conversation.
Mitch Lederman: I may have all these years of experience, but I can tell you, every week there's something I never saw something I never talked about or had to deal with.
Mitch Lederman: A student or a situation and things like that so i've got to be able to show that I can handle that so here first thing is, are you able to think quickly on your feet.
Mitch Lederman: I want to know that I want to know when this situation comes up.
Mitch Lederman: Are you going to be able to grab it quickly start putting boundaries, especially if you're going to be dealing with.
Mitch Lederman: or working in a situation where there's a lot of ambiguity, we want to know that you're going to be able to come quickly size it up.
Mitch Lederman: Put the boundaries around it and start creating the processes that start leading to the steps of the solution and then that bring you up to the top to the solution, so we want to know that what we don't want.
Mitch Lederman: Is a lot of times in business world is the person who is going to have to think about it, let me think about that I get back to you tomorrow.
Mitch Lederman: Oh great well gay to tell your manufacturing line is down, but when you go home and think about and have a good night.
Mitch Lederman: we'll just lose a million dollars, so you think about it, no it's not gonna happen now they're all going to be situations we have to think about.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, and I will tell you a lot of those are going to be in human relations and then, when there's human resources or other.
Mitch Lederman: Employees situations, sometimes, then you should take the luxury and the time to think things through, because there could be major impact on people's lives.
Mitch Lederman: Now, not you know, of course, nonetheless, there could be situations where it was imminent danger or someone just did something so heinous and you got to act.
Mitch Lederman: With it, but you got to be able to do this, so I need to know that you can be quick on your feet, the thinking on your feet does not mean that you jumped to a rash decision okay i'm going to want to know, are you a leader or a follower oh those followers they're the worst right.
Mitch Lederman: We don't want to follow us.
Mitch Lederman: Correct.
Matt McGuinness: me I do.
Karen Fireman: agree with that, I think we need followers to you need all the parts and each person needs to actually be able to be a leader and a follower.
Mitch Lederman: Okay yeah.
Jordan Gross: No military recruiter you definitely want followers not leaders that's like.
Jordan Gross: the entirety of boot camp is my understanding.
Mitch Lederman: Because she's a no barrier recruiter Okay, you want follow us okay.
Jordan Gross: occasions I don't think that's all the time, but I think if you're hiring for a job and not hiring for a career, you certainly made me more interested in a follower than someone who's going to try and change your operation.
Mitch Lederman: And that is correct, that is correct that's a good way to look at it, so what you both said, though, is absolutely spot on it's all situational.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, there are going to be times in a scenario I would want you to be the leader and there would be other times I would be really thrilled if you realize, you know what.
Mitch Lederman: This isn't in my wheelhouse i'm going to be a follower here because someone else is going to be much better leader okay in this one particular situation.
Mitch Lederman: So it's having that emotional intelligence to be able to know the situation and to say this one fits me to step up and take the lead.
Mitch Lederman: This one I will add more value by being a follower have we seen that in any projects you guys have done two years you probably have done number team projects.
Mitch Lederman: Have you ever seen with one of them, you said you know what this one's reading my wheelhouse or I know I could really take this and run with it and be the leader and another one where you said you know what.
Mitch Lederman: Probably better if I stay in the background, being more of that foundational support person, this is that so talk, but it's about being able to read the situation.
Mitch Lederman: Are you motivated by challenges one thing about this question i'm looking for is i'm looking at your body language.
Mitch Lederman: Because i'll tell you, when you start telling me a story about yeah, let me tell you about the time I was going to meet with with Mitch, and his office and they sent me down.
Mitch Lederman: And I walked in he was he was out of the office in the restroom and his desk was on fire, my God.
Mitch Lederman: What did I do you know, and you tell me what you did what i'm looking at this wow.
Mitch Lederman: did your eyes light up and you're just like to just really motivate you like oh God this office is on fire, I gotta do something, or is it more.
Mitch Lederman: Oh, I walked in this was on fire, so I walked out, and I said hey anyway that's on fire, this is that song looking to see how you're motivated and I can see that, through your body language okay.
Mitch Lederman: Look we're going to go to wrap up here so before we do questions box.
Mitch Lederman: or anything.
Amanda DePelsMaeker: I don't see these slides or the.
Amanda DePelsMaeker: resume slides on the campus will we be able to get a copy.
Mitch Lederman: I can get them to my room and she can get them up for you guys absolutely.
Karis Jochen: So I have another question, this is charisse.
Mitch Lederman: Yes.
Karis Jochen: I was listening to a podcast of Adam grant talking about interviews and something that he mentioned was staying.
Karis Jochen: i'm asking the interviewer what is a question like what is the thing about my resume or my experience that you were most hesitant about hiring and.
Karis Jochen: In that point was that.
Karis Jochen: You can address it in the interview or at the very least, if the interview doesn't pan out you've learned something from the interview, and I was just wondering what your thoughts are on this.
Mitch Lederman: So that is something that if you ask 100 people you're going to get 100 different answers about that I personally am not a fan of it, the reason is.
Mitch Lederman: When you do that you're showing have less than 100% confidence that you're the right person and that you've conveyed the right information to me.
Mitch Lederman: And I am one who is doesn't who believes you should never give me any negatives don't give me anything cuz the human tendency is will grab a negative.
Mitch Lederman: And we will wait it much more than a positive you ever go and look at online reviews you ever read an Amazon review or something like that you got 22,000 and it's a 4.8 what's the first place, you go you go to the ones you want to see why did the.
Mitch Lederman: Out of the 20,000, what are the 200 people who put the ones, say, and you start reading like oh there's a theme there haha now I don't like this one, or something like that.
Mitch Lederman: it's completely irrational, I will agree with you on that, but i've heard people say that i've done it again to myself.
Mitch Lederman: So i'm not a fan of that I understand where people come from from that because they're looking for you.
Mitch Lederman: you're trying to get an opportunity to address any perceived shortcomings or things like that what I would possibly frame, it would be a little bit more positively and say you know we've talked about a lot of things here.
Mitch Lederman: Today, and I know, sometimes the answers are the responses are a little truncated you know with respect to time, are there any aspects of my responses or my experiences.
Mitch Lederman: that you would like me to elaborate on so I can give you more depth, you know, an understanding of what i've done.
Mitch Lederman: to another way to ask them tell me where you think I fell short but it's a more positive way, then what did you not like about my resume what's your hesitancy that makes sense.
Karis Jochen: yeah yes, it does, thank you.
Mitch Lederman: Okay, but like I say 100 people hundred to one i've heard people say yeah you should ask questions at the end so.
Mitch Lederman: Is there anything that you feel would stop me from getting the position and I sit there and I go well, if someone asked me that i'd probably go yeah that question that you just asked me but that's just me.
Mitch Lederman: Great question that.
Ryan Connors: A match.
Ryan Connors: Yes, earlier on, when your slides, you mentioned the question how what differentiates.
Ryan Connors: Other candidates Now I know obviously everyone's kind of exaggerating a little bit on the resume and.
Ryan Connors: What from your experience what would you say something that's really exceptional that would answer that question because I mean first off you don't know who else is interviewing so what would you know.
Mitch Lederman: Well, you know that's going to be different from every person because we've all got different experiences, but I think a big differentiated to me is somebody who has shown that they have been able to go into a position and elevate the outcomes from that position to a higher level.
Mitch Lederman: because that means they've not just mastered the position Okay, but they've thought of new things and new values and new ways to make or to bring benefits and value to the organization along that line and tying it to something else I said was being able to show how you.
Mitch Lederman: cared about and was successful in making the people around you better.
Mitch Lederman: Because, if you could show that I made my team better.
Mitch Lederman: Well that's really, really good, because people cannot just grow themselves it's not just organic there has to be.
Mitch Lederman: The whole community has to be contributing to everybody's growth so that would be something to me.
Mitch Lederman: Where you were able to again not redefine the position, but just take it to the next level of things you know doing things new ways.
Mitch Lederman: That people didn't you know didn't know how to do, making you know, supporting your teammates and and bringing processes were you able to free them up to do other things by automating or things like that, so that would be a differentiator.
Ryan Connors: Okay, thank you.
Mitch Lederman: You know it gets back to that question, what makes you the best and some of you have heard that one for me i've sat there and looked and you say great I want to know what made you the best analysts what made you the best manager what made you the best.
Mitch Lederman: And if you can't say that, how can you sell yourself.
Mitch Lederman: You got to believe it and every one of you should believe it got yourself.
Mitch Lederman: masters or no masters you're all smart people and you've all done great things that the real problem is you getting it from the back your head to the front of the head and then your mouth and out the door.
Mitch Lederman: Because I know you hold on them you just have you have to accept it and allow yourself.
Mitch Lederman: Good question Thank you Ryan.
Mitch Lederman: Any other questions before we do our last wrap up slide alright practice practice practice prepare your students, well in advance the worst time to prepare for an interview is during the interview.
Mitch Lederman: Trust me to word of wisdom don't start preparing once you're in there always positive position, remember, I said that earlier, I don't want anything about negative like the hesitancy one that's a negative question always positive don't give me a reason not to hire you.
Mitch Lederman: highlight the value, you would add to your organization only reason i'm gonna hire you.
Mitch Lederman: simple question Can you help me make money even not for profits need you to make money because they still have to balance the books.
Mitch Lederman: and be concise and confident, especially when talking to even about areas and weaknesses areas of improvement, make it a positive just show people look, you need to hire me if you want the best and here's why.
Mitch Lederman: All right, any other questions.
Mitch Lederman: Alright, well, thank you, everybody, I appreciate your time here appreciate the great questions we had and everyone who jumped in and so forth, and just be confident in who you are okay.
Mitch Lederman: Cynthia you are the best, because if you don't think it it's not going to come across to put employer you gotta start thinking.
Mitch Lederman: i'm the best and one last tip when you go into an interview don't worry about anyone else's interviewing.
Mitch Lederman: don't worry don't worry if someone is from Harvard or someone's from MIT or something like that.
Mitch Lederman: And the reason I say don't worry is you can't control it anyway there's absolutely nothing to do.
Mitch Lederman: I always used to joke and say, unless you were going to stand in the doorway.
Mitch Lederman: And, as they were walking into the interview, you were going to trip them so they broke their leg and carted off to the hospital and weren't able to interview, other than that it doesn't matter who you're into against.
Mitch Lederman: You can do it isn't about it anyways just be yourself and put your best foot forward.
Mitch Lederman: All right, Congratulations again to everybody, you guys have all earned your stripes here.
Mitch Lederman: and go forth and make everybody, but most only make yourself proud.
Mitch Lederman: Have a good night.
Charles Swanson: Thank.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You Sir your models.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And, as I mentioned before, none of this will inform you and working on your project, but I will.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Have a slide in here about the project and I give you attempt to ask a few questions at that point.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you're dying to ask a question, then, just told it inside.
MS Analytics Class 2021: you'll be fine.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let me talk a little bit about what we covered in the last lecture.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we talked about the branch inbound algorithm which is divide and conquer strategy for solving integer and mixed integer models.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we went through a small two dimensional example.
MS Analytics Class 2021: pictured on the left is affectionately known as the optimization ferry and the relevance here is that this notion of cutting planes which kind of are.
MS Analytics Class 2021: An add on to the branch inbound algorithm that allow us to solve much larger problems in practice.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's not something that you have to come up with yourself.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So when we talked about.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The vehicle routing problem you can think of the sub tour elimination constraints that we added in as cutting planes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Those would be kind of problems specific cutting planes, so if you're a researcher on integer and mixing and your linear programming, you might come up with stuff like that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But in practice in solving these problems, the solver actually generates the cutting plans you don't have to do that yourself.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So when we combine the branch inbound algorithm and cutting planes we get an algorithm called the branch and cut algorithm.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So cutting planes are added in before we start branching and then for every sub problem we adding cutting planes until we reach a point where they don't seem to be.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Improving the bound very significantly, and then we do the branching and so when we look at the iteration log for an integer or mixed integer linear model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: will see a lot of detail about what goes on at the root node that's before any branching is taking place, and then in between each of these.
MS Analytics Class 2021: lines you can think of cutting planes being generated and the same situation occurs at every sub problem, but you only see that detailed information at the root node.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and often you can learn a reasonable amount about how hard your model is by looking at that detailed information.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And also, by trying to solve it with larger values of the parameter that you varied in the homework their relative objective gap parameter.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Controls how close you get to an optimal solution so in terms of just telling the compiler that you have variables that are discrete in nature, we have these keywords integer and binary.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And they are fun facts about your decision variables so where you have bounds on your variables you either say integer binary binary.
MS Analytics Class 2021: comes with the lower and upper bounds zero and one, so you don't have to give bounds if it's binary but if it's an integer variable it could be a non negative integer variable it could be, you know all kinds of different varieties.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In terms of some of the things that we've seen for linear programming models for integer and mixed integer linear models, we don't have dual values.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And, as I think it was Jim pointed out, because the graph of the objective versus the limit of one of the constraints, is actually a step function.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Sometimes that's kind of the fine detail of that graph and if you could look farther away a little more perspective, it might appear to be a smooth curve, but that fine detail prevents it from being able to calculate something of a slope.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, sometimes people will.
MS Analytics Class 2021: try and get an idea of that behavior by just like solving it for several different points and then kind of connecting them with a with a smooth curve.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Another thing that we've done with linear models is we talked about re optimization there is something similar for an integer mixed integer linear model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it's in the form of kind of like a head start so there's this option called primal in where it reads in values for the decision variables.
MS Analytics Class 2021: checks to see if they're feasible and if they are then it uses that as the value for best integer so it's something more kind of primitive.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It doesn't take advantage of any structure of the solution, just is the solution feasible or not, and if it's not feasible, there are actually some repair heuristics that it uses to try and construct a feasible solution, and if it can't then it just starts from scratch.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We also talked about the log freak solver option as being one of the that in the pre solver being two options that were common to both.
MS Analytics Class 2021: log freak is measured a little bit differently in linear models its measured in iterations.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In integer and mixing the jurors its number of seconds, so you have to start talking about larger problems before you kind of get to see any effect from log free can we did look at a couple of larger problems it took maybe a minute or two to self.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I talked about the relative objective get parameter cut off as another one that we saw which said that I have a solution that's this good i'm not interested in anything worse.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I kind of gave the the notion that what makes these problems harder is that oftentimes there are many discrete choices which you could make.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And because each one of them is going to have at least two possibilities as you kind of enumerate them all.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you may have to look at many of them, you get what we call a Communist tutorial explosion, the many, many sub problems can eat up a lot of memory.
MS Analytics Class 2021: oftentimes you find out that the problem eats up a lot of memory, when you run out of memory, because it's hard to control a priori, you can say.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That you don't want to look at more than a certain number of nodes, but if you don't know how much you need to store how much information you have to start each node.
MS Analytics Class 2021: which depends on more than just the number of variables and constraints it's hard to tell what a reasonable value to put there is, we did some modeling.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Using binary variables to capture some novel cost structures and we ended up by looking at this problem, using a technique called constraint generation, where we actually.
MS Analytics Class 2021: kind of took over the role of finding the cutting planes and adding them to the model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And in order to do that, we kind of solved a simple.
MS Analytics Class 2021: kind of graph problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: figuring out the connected components.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so that's a little bit of a review of what we did, the last time we're going to talk about.
MS Analytics Class 2021: nonlinear models, we talked about them a little bit at the very beginning of the course but i'm going to kind of start from scratch and look at some small problems that I can illustrate the ideas and concepts on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the class of algorithms here are called iterative improvement algorithms now i'll show you the basic structure of them.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In looking at problems with nonlinear constraints i'm going to introduce the idea of lagrangian multipliers their analogous to duel values and how they are used to assist in solving non linear programming models.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And i'll try and give you some idea of what kinds of models, we can solve in general, because.
MS Analytics Class 2021: nonlinear is a really broad class of functions, so you could have a lot of really crazy things I mean you could have a function that is a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Like one for rational numbers and zero for irrational numbers and you never have that you know, in a problem, but obviously there's there's a lot we're going to have to demand some structure from the types of functions that we have in our models.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so just to just a quick reminder what we're talking about here is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We have decision variables we looking at measures or scores of the decision variables for the objective and the constraints.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And a nonlinear programming problem has at least one of these functions is nonlinear right either the objective and we're one or more of the constraints so may have many linear constraints might even have a linear objective, but some one of those functions is nonlinear.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and used to be that in proc up model, they were different algorithms that would solve these different types of nonlinear models, but now it's more of a talking point if you're trying to describe to someone what kind of a nonlinear problem, are you solving.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The simplest kind is an unconstrained problem and simple two dimensional parabolic bowl problem we looked at in the beginning, as an example of an unconstrained.
MS Analytics Class 2021: nonlinear programming problem a bound constraint problem would have a nonlinear objective and just constraints on I mean just bounds on on the decision variables.
MS Analytics Class 2021: linearly constrained nonlinear programming problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Has the same feasible region as a linear programming model just linear constraints, but a nonlinear objective and then, finally, what is in some sense the hardest types of problems to solve problems, the nonlinear constraints so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The way the proc model works, now the same algorithms are used to solve all of these different types of nonlinear programming problems, but this is like I said a good way to describe to someone what type of problem that you're looking at.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'm going to illustrate this iterative improvement strategy in the context of what I would call a two dimensional.
MS Analytics Class 2021: bound constrained nonlinear programming problem Okay, so you can think of the variables as being like X one X two are long these two axes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The vertical axis is the value of the objective right which you can see from the shape here is nonlinear and, in this case i'm going to try to minimize.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The subjective okay so it's bound constraint, because their upper and lower bounds on the two variables, so the the feasible region is like a rectangle right the curve part is the is the objective itself.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So how this works is we look at a strategy from going from a current iterate to the next point so we start with some initial solution generate a next point and next point and exploits that we go through a sequence of solutions that hopefully will converge to an optimal solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let's suppose that we have a point here X Okay, so in the case iteration.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what i'm going to try and do is i'm going to try and find a search direction direction in which to move.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So a direction in which ideally I would be able to make the objective value smaller and quickly, hopefully, if it's a good direction.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, so that might look something like this, so I go from X K two K plus this new direction search direction you become clear why I call it a search direction just a minute So how do I calculate that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Well, I look at the local properties of the objective function at my current point so one of those characteristics, is the value of the objective itself right now that's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: doesn't really give you an idea of where to go next, though.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the next maybe class of information, I might use is the gradient at that point that kind of slope multi dimensional slope at that point, you know so like if I if I had a marble or a ball bearing there and I just said it going which direction would it start rolling it okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But, moreover, some methods take advantage of the curvature of the objective function at that point kind of a second order information so it's not flat there as I move away from that point it curves in some sense, and the second order information.
MS Analytics Class 2021: From the Hessian tells you about so the grading is like the first order the partial derivatives and the question is the second order partial derivatives, so that tells you something about the curvature of the objective at this point so you can think of it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As we approximate our objective by a quadratic function and then use information about that function to generate a search direction okay so here's here's the direction I can go and, obviously, if I move in that direction it's getting smaller.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But because the behavior of the objective is it's not a quadratic most likely the approximation gets worse, the farther I move away from that point and it may be that I don't want to take a whole step.
MS Analytics Class 2021: or I might want to take more than one step right, even though, for a quadratic function that might be the best next point to consider what i'll do is i'll solve.
MS Analytics Class 2021: what's called a line search problem so i'll take my current point in my search direction and let myself very the step size is it less than a step is it a whole step is it multiple steps so this here, one would be one step in that direction.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can see in this case that probably the best steps is to choose to be something in between two and three.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But there's a trade off between how much time I want to spend figuring exactly the best step to take here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and making a quick and dirty decision and getting better information and from the next point and taking another step right so sometimes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I should say, often this is solved approximately so maybe we would take two or three as a as a reasonable answer in this case okay so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Take our current point generate a search direction generally that involves solving systems of equations and then solving a simple one dimensional optimization problem to find the step size repeat repeat repeat until we come.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Close to an optimal solution, so how can we tell that let's go back to our.
MS Analytics Class 2021: are simple quadratic example from the very first lecture.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Well, we could tell that we were at a minimum there was when the gradient was zero.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Remember, we thought about this, we thought about putting a marble say on the top here and letting it roll where it comes to rest.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is where the objective is locally flat where the grading is zero so typically what's done in solving non linear programming problems is we keep generating that sequence of points until we get to a situation where the Green is very close to zero.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because we may never be able to get it exactly zero, especially if we're working in floating point arithmetic.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we might have some tolerance like 10 to the minus six and when the gradient is less than 10 to the minus six we stop and say that's the optimal solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now, of course, you might have to like verify that it's actually a minimum if we're trying to minimize because we could be at a like a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Mesa and it would still have a grain of zero, but it certainly is not the best solution, but that's basically what we're looking for trying to make the gradient small.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you can think about kind of incorporating the constraints, here we talked about kind of thinking about building partitions right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For these constraints, such as X is greater than or equal to zero y is less than or equal to zero, and for even for linear constraints, you can kind of think of building those walls why.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That would work is because let's say your marble is rolling along the wall well it's easy to kind of parameter eyes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Movement along that wall, because the variables are related in this linear equation, so you can essentially kind of eliminate lower dimensional problem of moving along a straight wall.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But we occurred wells just it's not so easy to do it's not easy to try to figure out how to parameters movement along the curve wall, and so we maybe need another idea to tackle the problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let me look at a small example.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's in this picture has a lot of information in it it's but it's it's not a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Three dimensional graph so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The feasible region that i'm I want to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: maximize my objective over is a two dimensional region that is this kind of lime green area here and the green line on the boundary and it extends out but i'm just showing the most interesting part right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is described by some nonlinear function, so the green line is the set of points where sea of X, Y is equal to be.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the arrows are the gradient so they show you which direction that function is increasing, so the the ones above that line are greater than be so that's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The set of feasible solutions okay now, what are the objective values the blue lines here are contours of the objective.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the objective value is constant in this ellipse here constant on this ellipse and it's getting bigger as we move into the Center so it's like a hill.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, this is the, this is the point with the largest objective value right so there's like I said a lot of information in this one little picture.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This red point is a feasible solution right it's in the feasible, region or you could go back and kind of calculate the function its value of C X, Y is bigger than me right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is that an optimal solution, do you think.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Well, can we can we do better, can we get a larger objective values, you can imagine kind of a contour line going like this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And anything inside that is going to be better, so we can move kind of down into the generally this direction and make the objective value bigger so that's not an optimal solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Where would the optimal solution be.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's gonna be on the Green Line right, but would it be like this point on the green line.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Probably not because you can kind of slide down the green line and it's getting bigger and bigger right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, if you look at the point on the green line where the the value was the largest it would be at this point where it's tangent between the contour line and the function okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: because all the points that are better are inside here and they're not feasible, but this point achieves that value so that's that's the optimal solution well, of course.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We can always just look and see we want to kind of how how prakash model is going to tackle this right so think about the solution strategy that we use for integer and mixed integer linear programming models kind of in a conceptual way.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What we did was we took kind of the the most complicating feature of the problem, the gravity we relaxed it we solve that problem, and then we kind of adjusted things.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Well, doing the same thing in this case would mean getting rid of the nonlinear constraint.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that the solution at the top of the hill is the best.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But it's not feasible.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we're kind of looking for a problem for a solution that's feasible that satisfies the constraints so without bringing back the constraint.
MS Analytics Class 2021: How can we kind of coax it to come closer to satisfying the constraint well one approach, we could take is, we could penalize in the objective the points down here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Another way of thinking that is kind of rewarding the points up here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So if we're if we're if we're too cavalier we might get up to these points, but we want to kind of add in the penalty like this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That looks at the violation of the constraint and rewards the points up here and penalizes the points down here, and if we add that term in here this penalty term, it might result in a solution that is at the tip of the arrow here so it's closer to satisfying the constraint.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And as we increase that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it'll keep moving towards the feasible region and at some magical value of the penalty parameter, it will it will touch.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That green line and then, if we were to keep increasing it more and more and more than it would just kind of go overboard it would it would start rewarding these points that are on the Interior and that would that would not be what we want.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But it appears that, at least as i'm kind of portraying it it led us to the optimal solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So maybe we should think about.
MS Analytics Class 2021: kind of how that how that would work.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is an instance of a general technique that that turns out to be very successful.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And what it involves is adding one of these penalty parameters in for each of the constraints in our model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then, using them to penalize points that don't satisfy the constraints or turn it the other way around reward the points that do satisfy the constraints.
MS Analytics Class 2021: in such a way that we don't kind of over reward so we want to adjust that penalty parameter just until we reach the boundary just until that constraint is is satisfied with the quality or is tight so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This relationship says that either.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The constraint is tight because we introduced this penalty or if the constraint let's say is is already satisfied is not we're on the Interior and we don't need a penalty parameter.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is called complementarity, because for the product to be 01 of the two terms has to be zero, and you can see, this is starting to sound kind of like dual values right it's the tight constraints that have the positive dual values it's the same idea here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Dual values are just lagrangian multipliers for linear programming models it's this exactly the same idea it's just a computationally we can't kind of get them as cleanly as we can, you know linear programming setting.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what we do is we kind of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Sorry, is there a question.
Matt McGuinness: yeah So how do you go about kind of setting the penalty values it's just part of what prakash model does and the solver dancer.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Yes, the solver does, that is, the optimization fairy was about to say is you can think of it as.
Matt McGuinness: it's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Taking the nonlinear constraints and kind of wrapping them into the objective in such a way that, instead of just trying to find the decision variables.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The decision problem now becomes find the decision variables and the lagrangian multipliers that satisfy these complementarity conditions and i'll show you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: See I didn't want to get too deep into this, but in some sense the lagrangian multipliers are kind of a certificate of optionality in a way that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can look in the in the course notes, if you want to see a little bit more about that, so that you don't have to do that, you don't have to come up with a scheme that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: modifies them it's all built into the solver but that's the approach that is taking it's called a primal dual approach, because the X variables.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Are the primal variables and the grounds multipliers are the analog of what we call the dual values before so that's what the solver is trying to do is trying to both come up with good solutions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And lagrangian multipliers that ideally will satisfy these complementarity conditions, but most likely in America, we will satisfy them to with an intolerance in the same way that when we talked about making the gradient small then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We, we have a small tolerance and so essentially what they're doing is they're trying to make the gradient of this lagrangian function small.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that's what it uses as a criteria for when it can stop okay see I kind of conceptually what it's trying to do is is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: penalize the points that violate the constraints using these penalty parameters in a way that it penalizes them just enough to push it kind of two solutions that are on the boundary.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And if that all sounds a little bit like magic.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me try and illustrate for you, with.
MS Analytics Class 2021: minimizing a function, called the banana function, you may have been wondering what all these festering bananas were doing to help you remember this example and if you did some of the suggested exercises, you may have run across this model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me go ahead and CSS studio is given up on me, fortunately hasn't.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So there is in the demos for Chapter five.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's called banana bounce.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's pretty simple objective but it's not.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's not quadratic So you can see, I have y minus X squared squared and one minus X squared so it's it's it's beyond quadratic.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What would the optimal solution be if I didn't have constraints or bounds on the variables.
MS Analytics Class 2021: may be not exactly obvious so let's just try that and see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so let's look at the solution summary here here's the solution X and y are both one, and if we go back to the code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can probably see, that is, if you plug in X and y are both one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Both of those terms are zero, and that should be the smallest that it could get because both those terms are non negative okay now How does that relate to the constraints.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's put the bounce back in Okay, so one one satisfies the constraint X is greater than equal to one, but it violates the y is less than or equal to zero.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's it's too big, so if we were thinking about attaching a penalty to one of these things, we would penalize violations of this constraint here, why is less than or equal to zero.
MS Analytics Class 2021: right to try and encourage it to use smaller and smaller values of why we're starting out with one until it gets just to zero.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it makes sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's look at the solution to the model with the bounds included and i'm going to print the values of X and y as well as the lagrangian multipliers.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Those are the things that are like dual values and not surprisingly, we can access them they're stored in the same place, that the dual values are for a linear programming model so X doing wild dual.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so let's go down to the problems and the solutions summary.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And below where I printed out the values, you can see that Why is he Well, this is a hate scientific notation.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You look at that it looks like a big number right, and then you look to the to the right, you see, oh it's very small number.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it's it's very close to zero so essentially zero y zero and X is about Point six right, so it was able to reduce the value why using that penalty parameter, which ultimately turned out to be about Point seven right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: minus Point seven because it's less than or equal to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It but it's just in a way that the penalty actually is penalizing the points that are bigger than zero.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we could.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you want to see actually formula engine.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me copy this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: See, I think I can copy it like if I can't copy it you just memorize it and you can read it back to me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me, let me change this and formula lagrangian so i'm going to say minimize i'll just call it l so is the objective.
MS Analytics Class 2021: plus a term that penalizes and see if I can i'm a genius.
MS Analytics Class 2021: With panel penalize values of why that are bigger than zero so it would be like minus Point six 9.52 times.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Zero minus y but it just multiplies out, and this makes more sense right, so if the values of wire big there's a penalty which makes the objective bigger and we're trying to minimize it so let's see what happens when we add the penalty and we remove the constraints.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Which are just bounds, in this case so i'll solve this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And when we look at the solution, you can see that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Why is essentially zero and X is about mean six same value, so it is, although it seems like it's a little bit magical you can see it actually in practice in this small problem it's actually working like it's supposed to Okay, the takeaway is that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When you say solve the strategy that the solver is going to use is going to use this kind of iterative improvement to generate successively better and better solutions and at the same time.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's generating better and better values for these lagrangian multipliers, which at the end can be kind of like plugged into something that tests to see how close we are to an optimal solution if we look at the log.
MS Analytics Class 2021: will see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That it is called optionality error, this is essentially the gradient the norm, of the grading of the objective or lagrangian and when it gets to be small below a tolerance for a solution that is not in feasible than it terminates okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Going back to the lagrangian multipliers.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In terms of kind of how we can use them how to interpret them it's the same relationship between the objective value and the limit of the constraint that we saw for dual values Okay, so they measure the slope, where the change and the objective value as a per unit change in the limit.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The differences, now that the picture is that the graph of the objective value is not piece wise linear it's smooth but the value of lagrangian multiplier is the slope of the line kind of the tangent line at that point.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And, just like we did for linear programming models, it can be used to predict the objective value as we change the constraint limit says the same kind of utility there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That gives you an idea of what's going on, when you say solve.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's talk a little bit about what kinds of functions that we can use.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In a nonlinear programming model kind of what what can we get away with what can we solve.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So here is another picture unrelated to this one have some some functions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So one of the things to keep in mind is that to generate the search direction we're trying to approximate by quadratic functions okay so for that reason we want our functions to be smooth so here I pictured in hopefully known as colorblind.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A red function that smooth a black function that smooth and a blue function that's not right has a kind of discontinuity here it's piece wise linear, so I would that would that be an issue.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Well, if you're trying to approximate this by a quadratic function in your anywhere on the left side of that little elbow you think that it's a straight line right you can't predict this change.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And if you're anywhere to the right, you would predict that it's a straight line like this, you can't really see that how it behaves.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In the neighborhood of the point that you're at because of that non smoothness and so you can kind of get stuck not being able to see, whereas with these smooth functions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can see here the it's increasing, even though you can't see kind of the the rate at which is increasing its you can tell, because the slope is kind of changing gradually it kind of inches you over to the direction that you need to go.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, in a case where it's not smooth you just may not be able to get good information you can't get a good search direction you can improve the objective.
MS Analytics Class 2021: There is, however, another dangerous thing going on here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: At this on this black function looks kind of like a logarithm it is kind of well not exactly blowing up it's kind of blowing down.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It might be approaching minus infinity as we go a little bit farther to the left and so when we have functions that aren't well behaved or well defined.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That can lead to a numeric exceptions, so we want to avoid functions that are not smooth and we want to avoid functions that are not well defined.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But this leads us to another question well defined were.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So to answer the question well well defined where mean the the the possible.
MS Analytics Class 2021: extremes are here, while I might say.
MS Analytics Class 2021: On the one extreme well defined everywhere, on the other extreme, you might say, well defined for all the feasible solutions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right thinking of maybe the objective value but turns out the real answer is kind of in between.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let's, this is a picture that kind of narrows are feasible region for the example problem to also satisfy some bounds, so now for this slightly more restricted version of the problem, the line green points that are in the rectangle are the ones that are feasible.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So all the points in the rectangle satisfy the bound constraints, the greenpoint says by all the constraints and all of spaces is everywhere else.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it turns out that the interests, the success of solutions that are found by the solver and prakash model are guaranteed to satisfy the bound constraints.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But may not satisfy the other constraints, so you could realize a sequence of points that looks like this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is infeasible not in the green area getting more feasible Well now, it kind of jumped the gun in it, it went into the feasible region.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But the next point actually might go out of the feasible region so you will encounter or step on points that may not be feasible but satisfy the bound constraints, so the general rule is the objective and the constraint function should be well defined.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For all the points that satisfy the bank constraints and what could happen if they aren't is you might step into a little puppy spot where one of the functions is poorly behaved and you might get an America exception because the algorithm to fail.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so we're going to keep that in mind kind of going forward.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so let me show you an example of a nonlinear function, that is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: smooth and is doesn't blow up or blow down.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's defined in a pretty simple feasible region is just a bounded feasible region.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you can think of like X and y satisfying some upper and lower bounds so it's it's kind of wavy but but it's it's continuous it's smooth it's well defined and it has the actual formula looks like this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Where the the sync function is this, so the sink of Z is the sign of Z divided by Z so that kind of explains the way Venus comes from the sign function but it gets dampened down as you move away from small values alright.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If we're trying to maximize what's the optimal solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah This is like the you know black diamond run from the top of the hill here right so that's the that's the the optimal solution, and if we look at that point.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's away from the boundary so enough to mess, with the garage multipliers there's only really matter if we're on the boundary.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If the if the bound constraints are tight, so the condition for optimal it is just the grading is zero, and it is it's locally flat.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that would be satisfy our criteria if our if our algorithm happened to end up at that point, you would say that's the optimal solution, but what about this point here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's also away from the boundaries you don't have to worry about multipliers.
MS Analytics Class 2021: grading is also zeros locally flat, so if we happen to land at this point if we started there, or maybe close to that and we're attracted to it, then it might terminate and say, this is the optimal solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what this is getting at is the criteria that uses for determining whether a point is an optimal solution is a local criteria so always find a local optimal solution, but it may not find the global optimal solution okay so there's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Any one of these red points could potentially be the solution to the problem when you say solve.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When I record my lectures, which I haven't had to do this year.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And will a friend that helps me here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: timmy the Texas and i'm a student and when he's faced with a situation like this, this is what happens I say timmy you found a solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is it optimal.
MS Analytics Class 2021: He has no idea.
MS Analytics Class 2021: right because there's unless you have a solution, and you can see a better solution you don't know if it was the optimal solution or not right so don't worry we'll see timmy again to me is coming back later.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me show you that, in fact, this can happen.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let me open up another.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is a this will you'll see the formula for that sync there's called sync dot SAS.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this looks pretty complicated, but what i'm doing here is i'm.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Separating out two points where I would actually be dividing by zero if I use the formula okay so it's the sign of Z or Z if Z is zero.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's division by zero frowned upon by SAS in many other in the numerical community, so what i'm doing is i'm picking out the points where I know it's going to be zero.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what what I mean by that well the first term is X minus two squared plus y squared so that's zero if X is to and y is zero and the other term is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: X squared plus y squared and that's zero if they're both zero so i'm just separating those cases out just to make sure that I don't have like a hard fail here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I can still run into trouble if i'm very close to those points but what's by default, what is the value the initial value for my decision variables you remember this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: 00.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, so I would be unlucky if I.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If I started and I didn't single that point out, I might get division by zero at the very first solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I put it up here as the initial values, just to kind of emphasize that, but it would still be 00 without these nets in the top so in it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Well, it doesn't have an effect on the LP solvers they ignore the initial values, it can have a profound effect for an nlp.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If we go back to that picture.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you think of like just starting at a point in going through a sequence of steps, I could end up any of these and it's kind of like a chaotic attractor.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know I could have to to starting points or even very close together and they kind of diverge and go to different solutions so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: There are.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's go back to it here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah so so I just it, the point is that for nonlinear programming models what you choose as your initial solution is is critical, because it kind of determines in some sense, where you end up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so we want to kind of make judicious choices here, using information about the problem when we have that information when we know that information.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so i'm going to solve it once starting from 00.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then i'll start it again, starting from some kind of random looking point here, which is close to the boundary, so why goes from minus five to five, so the value of y is almost five it's going to close to one of the boundaries.
MS Analytics Class 2021: X doesn't quite go symmetrically it's between minus four and six but it's smack DAB in the middle there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this will sell two models.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so here's our first model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So our solution is the point one zero, which is the is the Center of that graph I showed you the objective value is 1.683.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now, because we looked at the picture we kind of know this is the optimal solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What about the second point.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the second solved statement got me this point.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The point one five it's on the boundary because the value of y is five why goes between minus five and five.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And being on the boundary you can kind of see here that we're on the boundary for why and the dual value of lagrangian multiplier for why is positive X is in the middle and it's dual value is essentially zero it's three times seven minus seven.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But what about the objective value, so this objective value is point oh five eight.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, if you only sell that one starting from this point, this would be your optimal solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right there's nothing in there in the output that says optimal but you should probably run it again, it just says optimal because it'd be you have to interpret as locally optimal.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: There are a couple of things we can do here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: One of the things we can do is, we can try and find some conditions that will guarantee that this doesn't happen and hope that our business problem satisfies these conditions, so we just don't have to worry about it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But that might not necessarily be the case, or we might be able to verify those conditions for a business problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: There is also a strategy and kind of practical strategy which we can use.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To try lots of different starting points and that's an automated strategy in pocket model we'll get to that a little bit later.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But I should point out that it's it's not that the people at SAS aren't smart enough to figure this out it's the nonlinear programming models are just inherently complicated and hard to solve to find a provable global optimal solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You just have to hope that you problem has some nice special structure, if you need that kind of a guarantee so let's look at some conditions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That guarantee.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That our solution or problem as well behaved or a model as well behaved.
Oh, I should look let's see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: last question was the timmy Okay, I think I answered that one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So here's some fairly general conditions that guarantee that a problem has unique minimum or maximum and one of the conditions is about the feasible region and the other condition is about the objective function.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the first one is that the if the feasible region is convex.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the Gray ones down below are convex the yellow one is not convex let me kind of illustrate what that means one nice way to think about convex is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That in a convex feasible region, whatever point you're at wherever it says, you are here, you can see every other point in the feasible region like if you had a flashlight you can shine it around and see every other point in the feasible region.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I said that's non convex there could be a monster hiding around the corner somewhere in the set and you wouldn't be able to see it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because there's not a kind of you try to shine your flashlight it would have to leave the feasible region and kind of magically come back you'd have to see through both of those walls to be able to see the monster okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And what can happen kind of in terms of optimization where there's not actually a monster is that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's say we're trying to minimize the value of X if X is measuring the horizontal component here, and this is the minimum here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, but this is a local minimum two and you can't like see this point from here sooner to get to it you'd have to kind of backtrack through solutions that are worse, to be able to kind of slingshot around to this point.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so that the conduct the convexity of the feasible region prevents that from happening, and if you want to kind of relate that to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Something else that you might know about lenses, this is a convex lens, and this is a concave lens right so that's kind of the same idea kind of the same idea.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so now, what about the objective function.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If it's nicely behave if it's convex the feasible region, the local minimum of a convex function.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is globally optimal or the local maximum or concave function.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so if you're minimizing you hopefully your objective is convex if you're maximizing you hope that it's concave.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's kind of have an idea of what that's like in one dimension in higher dimensions, the best way to think about it is concave looks like a cave.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, if you look at a one dimensional concave function it's kind of like this in two dimensions it's kind of like you imagine you're in a in a cave and you it's kind of smooth around you right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we'll try and apply that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's look at let's think about some examples here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So one example of a nonlinear programming model that we've seen before, is this two dimensional problem so here's the actual formula for the objective okay and here's a graph of the objective.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what are we trying to do in that case you're trying to maximize so if we're trying to maximize we want the answer to be concave to say is this objective function concave and there are a lot of different ways to characterize those.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But the easiest way is does it look like a cave so you can imagine kind of being under here and you're looking up at the roof of a cave.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It looks like a cave it turns out that you can use the math to show that it's concave too, but this is a concave function convex function is like our parabolic bowl.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So if you if you got a good idea what a convex function looks like concave function looks like that flipped over.
Okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so that satisfies one of our two criteria.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For being well behaved problem or model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What about the feasible region so here's like I say where the action takes place.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is this look like a convex feasible region, again, you can think of it like a convex lens.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, Jim is saying no and here's an example of if I was here at this point I can't see all of the points in the feasible region, there are some that are kind of around the corner, so there could be you know a little monster hiding down here and I wouldn't see it, it would be a nasty surprise.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this one fails to satisfy those criteria, while the objective function is nice the feasible region is not nice enough to guarantee that it has a unique global in this case minimum i'm sorry maximum.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But it turns out that is it's pretty well behaved.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I when I say where the action is taking place, as you move away it just kind of like gracefully levels out with this asymptote here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so you can see that this is the unique global maximum at any other point on the green line we can just kind of slide towards that point.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Keep maintaining increasing the objective value and if we're any point in the in the interior, we can kind of move towards the boundary.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So there's no other place that we can have a locally maximum local maximum because we can always find some direction to move in to make it better so, even though it doesn't satisfy the criteria it's still as well behaved.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: can see that the criteria are sufficient, but not necessary, so if we have a model that satisfies those conditions we know it's going to be great and it's going to be easy to solve We only have to solve it one time.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But if it doesn't we still might get lucky we just have to maybe have a strategy to cap for the possibility, there might be multiple local optimal solutions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But that's not the only example that we've looked at, there is another example that we could consider from last week.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you remember that we had a non linear programming.
MS Analytics Class 2021: model that we solved approximately as a mixed integer linear programming model right there was this us a trance shipment problem with flights.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let's consider that and ask those two questions and that problem is in minimization problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we want the feasible region to be conflicts and we want the objective function to be convex as well, and if those two conditions are satisfied, then we know it's well behaved and we only have to solve it one time.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I have kind of abbreviated this because.
MS Analytics Class 2021: numb ship is kind of hard to type in would make things a little bit long here so i'm just using X is our decision variables, you can think of ci G is just the kind of based cost of shipping unit cost of shipping so for the ground arcs its linear.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And for the flight arcs there's this discounting function, who shape i'll remind you what it looks like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: looks like that Okay, the more you ship, the more you save that's the idea here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay So hopefully you didn't pay too much attention when I I revealed, one of the answers.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is the feasible region convex so Alaska in the opposite order, this time.
MS Analytics Class 2021: say, well, I can't remember what the feasible region is it's a hard question to answer well let's think about our model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The only thing complicating here was the objective other than that it was a pure network model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what it had was it had bounds on the decision variables.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it had these flow conservation constraints or flow balance constraints.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And those are all linear constraints OK, so the feasible region here is the feasible region of a linear programming problem it's the objective that's complicated.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now it turns out that the feasible region of a linear programming problem is always going to be convex okay it's like a Polygon in two dimensions poly tip in three dimensions and analogous Lee in higher dimensions okay so it's like one of those examples that I had there good.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that turns out to be true.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the next question meal, maybe this is complicated, is the objective function convex me it looks complicated here it's got a lot a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: lot of ins and outs and so forth.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we're combining these functions in a pretty straightforward way we're adding up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Positive multiples of them, so it turns out that if this basis function is convex and the whole slew milos convex.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, likewise, if the basis function was concave the whole thing would be concave linear doesn't push us in one direction or another linear is like both contracts and concave.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let's look at it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is this a convex function.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is concave it's decidedly not convex so it's kind of the opposite of what we were hoping it would look like right convex would be shooting up like X squared.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The the derivative would be increasing and here it's decreasing the slope is decreasing, as we move to the right, so, in other words.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The objective is kind of like the opposite in behavior of what we expect, and so, for this problem, we might go into it with.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The expectation that there might in fact be multiple.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Local optimal solutions, so this this could be like worst case scenario here doesn't satisfy the criteria, and in fact you'd like satisfied in the exact opposite way that we would expect, so we go into this with some fear and trepidation.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so i'm i'm ready to take a break here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But what i'm gonna do is i'm going to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Show you a slide for a suggestion of a strategy to use for your project.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then, if you want to take a break that's great otherwise i'll answer questions for like 10 minutes about questions that people might have on the project.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we'll we'll finish off for nonlinear okay so so what I suggested was the very first thing you should try and do is just reading the data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Read the data from the data set print it out, make sure it's getting into the right place right and he basically had all the tools, you need it for that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: After like for for lectures, the other part, is trying to modify the baggage delivery model into a vehicle routing model Okay, and so there's some kind of like commonalities but some differences in the the the what they're trying to do so, this is my suggestion.
MS Analytics Class 2021: here's a couple of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: variations on the baggage delivery model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That use the data from the baggage delivery model so i'm saying read the data and the you're ultimately going to use.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But instead of trying to throw that data in and modify the code, at the same time, try and modify the code to do something similar with the baggage and then pull your data in because then at least you know the programming part is doing the right thing, so here's my suggestion.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the the baggage delivery model minimize the make span right the make span is the longest of the two routes in that case, since there were only two vehicles.
MS Analytics Class 2021: One partial step towards the model you're trying to solve is to include the transit times on that last return trip to the depot to the airport, because the vehicle routing model counts, all the transit times to try and modify the baggage delivery to include those transit times.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and try and modify the graphing code, so that it produces graphs that have an arrow that takes you back there because, ideally, it would be nice to have graphs like that to show your client at the pub.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, otherwise he'd say well what am I going to do with the truck once I get out there, how am I going to get it back to the brewery.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's like yeah drive it back follow the arrow so that's a that's a pretty minor modification of the baggage delivery problem, but it kind of gets you along the way to solve the other problem is another model that's closer.
MS Analytics Class 2021: now take the bag is delivery model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And instead of bands bands that are big enough to hold all the luggage let's introduce the vans that have a capacity okay let's say that you can have 12 bags in each van.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Well, we don't know how many bags, there are that's not part of the problem date, it was just locations let's let's make up some some data so that what the SAS function does.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is it says how many lowercase vowels are there in the name of the city it's just some arbitrary function right that will take the name of each location.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and generate a number of bags it's like two, three or four so it's like you know how many bags, would you leave behind if you're a family not too many bags not like 10 but so that gives you some numbers to work with.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So these numbers are analogous to the number of kegs that you're have to deliver to your customers.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the capacity of the vans now is now August to the number of kegs that you can fit in the refrigerated truck so it's a similar situation.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But it deals with the data from the baggage delivery model so if you can get this running and you can probably pull your data in and solve the problem you want to solve okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it's just some suggestions strategy and for for this this model, you can also send me those same two data sets if you want confirmation that the routes are actually.
MS Analytics Class 2021: circuits that you could actually drive without time traveling or teleportation and that you don't try and load more than 12 bags to make the deliveries, so you can kind of check to make sure you're incorporating the problem characteristics Okay, this is the suggestion I mean.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can you can try and create your masterpiece right from the get go but it's not a great strategy, because then it doesn't work and you don't know why you didn't make incremental changes, you can usually kind of figure out what's screwing up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Or, I can you send me the data sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so let's let's take a break.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we'll let's break until 820 but I will.
Thank you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's not a problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That was a That was a short encapsulation of my my discussion.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm just trying to kind of think you through like the what happens is similar like if you were you know refilling vending machines, or something like that no you just like drop off a little bit at each place you might pick something up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Once you pick up or empty, the ones who drop off for full.
Amanda DePelsMaeker: I have a question to it seems like we're supposed to have the model identify how many like trips to take um unless i'm thinking about it incorrectly.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that's correct.
Amanda DePelsMaeker: And i'm confused on how to like create a variable and then like use it to index other implicit variables, I guess, I was wondering if I could get pointed to an exam.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, well, so in this case the model has a fixed number of vehicles.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, but the number of vehicles is you're not going to have a lot of choices there, so you probably will be able to instead of having the model also choose the number of vehicles if it's only going to be like well how many you think you'll need at a bare minimum.
MS Analytics Class 2021: one.
one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Well, how many kegs how many total cakes do you have to deliver.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is it more than 29 total to all customers.
Charles Swanson: Yes, but you can.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Then you need to.
Wright, Beth: So we're not doing multiple trips, for the same vehicle we're getting the number of vehicles we need so each one does only one trip is that idea.
MS Analytics Class 2021: No, I think the idea is that one vehicle.
Amanda DePelsMaeker: That they rent.
MS Analytics Class 2021: is going to make multiple trips it loads up does deliveries comes back empties go to the brewery loads up and goes and delivers to six more customers.
Charles Swanson: But each trip could be thought of as a different vehicle.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah that's a way to kind of identify the two models, even though it's it's not actually two vehicles it's kind of conceptually shows that one model installing both of those cases just you identify a vehicle with a trip say.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Does that make sense.
Charles Swanson: Yes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, if you know, the total number.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: kegs that you need to deliver to your customers and the capacity of the truck.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That tells you something about how many that minimum.
MS Analytics Class 2021: TRIPS, you need to take.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then you might just say okay well what if I take one more trip, can I do better, or if I take two more trips, can I do better.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then, based on that, so the model doesn't necessarily have to decide the number of vehicles, because there's probably not going to be a lot of different choices that makes sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Other questions.
Charles Swanson: I guess, do we need to take into account the demand service we satisfy the demand.
Charles Swanson: In the number of trips to each of the different customers or.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm not sure I understand the question okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But the think of the demand is not like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's kind of like the the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Transportation problem it's not like up to that as the demand that's how many you're kind of contractually obligated to deliver to them that month.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Does that make sense.
Yes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this trying to answer why I thought your question was.
Shadi Kilani: I have a question based on my understanding, we don't have to account for the loading and unloading time right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The loading and unloading time won't affect your solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But it might be something that you want to incorporate in your discussion.
MS Analytics Class 2021: in the sense that, if they want to know whether they're needing to rent the truck for one day or two days.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That might come into play that makes sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it won't change the quality of a solution, the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: solution is just determined by the routes, but in terms of how that actually.
MS Analytics Class 2021: looks from their perspective when they actually have to do it, they do have to do the loading, so the loading is going to factor into how much time it takes for the whole process.
Shadi Kilani: That makes sense, yes, yes, it goes beyond what the model is telling us read application, because you know you have to account for that I guess right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah I mean they they are going to have to unload and load but it's just.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That it doesn't it doesn't factor into which router better.
Karen Fireman: Are we it's Karen again um so you've told us to start with the baggage model which is a really big help.
Karen Fireman: and obviously we're going to do that is it.
Karen Fireman: A few changes from the baggage model to get to where we're going, or is it massive changes and then suddenly looking like the USA trans ship model when we're all done with it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: No it's not too many changes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, yes, I would say that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The the the model that i'm suggesting, and the second bullet item is is basically the model that you're doing with different data.
Karen Fireman: gotcha Thank you that's helpful.
Okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so let me go back to some nlp.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And if you're being really cynical about this, you can say, well, since the nlp stuff is not going to help them with the project now i'm going to take my break and then come back and catch up so but I think that could be who's to say.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so let me look at solving some some models and do the same approach that we use before So these are little two dimensional models they're more realistic kind of more business problem you looking models, looking at the log and so forth.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Just to get an idea of what solving these problems are like and then a little bit after that we'll try and solve some.
MS Analytics Class 2021: trickier models larger models or or more complicated models.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the kind of general strategy for how pocket model solve non linear programming problems or models.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is that and we probably seen this, you may not have it may not have registered at the time, is it pocket model can differentiate between.
MS Analytics Class 2021: linear quadratic and kind of general non linear functions Okay, so you might have seen that if you're really paying close attention.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In the very beginning, when we saw that simple quadratic model had a quadratic objective pocket model was able to recognize that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And for the class of models that has a quadratic objective and linear constraints and satisfies that criterion for nicely behaved objective function minimizing convex maximizing concave.
MS Analytics Class 2021: uses a special solver called the Q P solver key P stands for quadratic programming, this is a very well solved class of models and the solution at the algorithm works, almost as efficiently as a linear programming model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, for that class it uses a special solver and it did so for the the the the example that we looked at the beginning of the class, if you look there, it will say is that what's called the key piece over.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Any other nominee your programming model by default it uses an algorithm called interior print algorithm so it's kind of like the IP algorithm that's used for linear programming similar name.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's by default there's also a backup plan here, called the active set algorithm.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Which kind of like the primal simplex or the interior point algorithm for linear programming is not the default, but you can call it by saying solve with nlp slash algorithm equals and then choose like the active set right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: they're both robust algorithms they're designed to solve, you know medium to large scale problems, so you would probably only use the active set algorithm if.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You run into difficulties with the interior point or, if you are solving a large number of similar models and you just want to test and see if one was better than the others.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All right, there's also an experimental algorithm but unfortunately it's not in your version of SAS or so i'm not going to tell you about it it's a big secret.
MS Analytics Class 2021: some kind of technical things that actually.
MS Analytics Class 2021: make this work for solving medium to large scale problems is that the algorithms take advantage of sparsity so sparsity is a measure of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: How many non zeros there are so if you think about it, the gradient is an array the Hessian the second order partial derivatives, the curvature is a two dimensional array that's as big as your number of variables Square.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So if you have to kind of do something for each of those little boxes, it could take a long time, but if it takes it if it can take advantage of sparsity only calculates the terms that it has to calculate that turns out to be very important in practice because most problems are sparse.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The other thing that it does, which is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: is good, numerically is that it uses automatic differentiation, so what that means is like, if you use mathematical or maple.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know that if you put in a function and you ask it to find the derivative it uses the rules of calculus to find the exact derivative well pocket model does that same thing right, so it makes for more precise.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Calculations for what is used to calculate the search direction now I should say that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You are also able to have user defined functions in pocket model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I don't know there's a lot of cause for that, but SAS has a procedure that you can use to define functions that aren't either common functions or SAS functions kind of like black box functions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so you can have such functions in a nonlinear programming model, and so, if there's if it's if it's like a user defined function it doesn't have a defined derivative, and so it uses numerical approximations in that case, but it'll tell you in the log which is doing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, the but the automatic differentiation is is more precise more efficient So these are two technical reasons why the algorithms are just fabulous.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so if you are solving a problem, using the nlp solver the interior pointer the active sets algorithms produce an iteration log like I briefly showed you before.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That, as you truck along shows you the objective value the feasibility and the optionality air, so what we're trying to do is kind of simultaneously in some sense, make the objective value bigger small pending on where whether we're minimizing are maximizing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We want to make the feasibility drop to zero, or at least to some tolerance in feasibility is a measure of the most that we violate any constrained by.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I mean, in a perfect world, we wouldn't violate any constraints would be feasible but because we're using floating point arithmetic, we have to allow for the fact that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The calculated in feasibility is going to be a little bit different than what the actual on feasibility is and so we're probably trying to get this below a tolerance and the optimal quality air below a tolerance.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it's not exactly a monotone process because we're trying to make you know all three things small or too small, and one of them big So you see that they're kind of like gains and losses as we move along but eventually it settles down we converge.
MS Analytics Class 2021: to a point where the feasibility and the optionality are both small and then we terminate so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Like was the case in linear programming there's an option solver option that lets you say, I want to see this information every so many iterations.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And for linear programming that parameter log free is dynamically determined based on problem size and characteristics that's quite a mouthful for the nlp solver.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Well i'll just tell you it's one and so that should give you an idea that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we're not able to solve as large problems for nonlinear models and also that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: mean if it's going to take more than you know 5000 iterations you might as well give up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because otherwise they would have chosen a bigger value expected that you'd be having hundreds of thousands of iterations that's, not to say that you can't change this, but that's what it is by default it's one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me show you the tolerances here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: fees tall is for the feasibility tend to minus six they seem to like that number itself is not the melody tolerance tended to minus six and you can adjust these these are solver options right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The objective limit.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it turns out that you know linear programming model there's a lot of different outcomes are for for non linear programming model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: here's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Taxation peg hexagonal lattice of beehive to show you some of the possibilities.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In linear programming there's only a few things that we could have we could either have an optimal solution, it could be in feasible and the third possibility is that it's unbounded what's an example of that for linear programming problem maximize X.
MS Analytics Class 2021: No constraints Oh, we can make it really made there's no limit to how big it can be well, the same is true for a nominee programming model, it could be unbounded.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In linear programming the way you detect if something is unbounded it's like you get to number we're kind of crawling around the edges of something.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You get to an edge and you realize, you can keep going in that direction forever and nothing is ever going to stop me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the way you can count, you can know that for sure is because all the constraints are linear right, so you can calculate where a line is intersecting a plane in anomaly your case you get to a point where.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because the boundaries curve around they could come as a slap in the in the head, later on, you don't know how far you can move out can't know for sure, so what they have is it's kind of like baseball told jack to tell you about the astros was not quite the same.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's like a home run fence, so if you hit the ball this high and it goes over the fence, so if your objective value ever gets bigger than 10 to the 28th power it's pretty it's pretty a not a lot of home runs in this League, then, is declared to be unbounded.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Which is not exactly for sure, but that's a pretty big number right, and if you had a problem where your objective values are floating around 10 to the 20th then a I want your job and be you could just choose a larger value okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The maximum number of iterations by default is 5000 which again tells you something about the expectation of how.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know whether you're going to be able to solve a problem or not, you can set it to be larger depending on the problem some problems there, well behaved in close to linear not too crazy problems you could do more iterations.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And Max time you can set this if you say you know my boss tells me if I don't come up with a good solution by lunchtime, then don't even bother so you just sell it in seconds you figure out, you know when you want to go to lunch and divided by 60 by 60 and multiply by 60 twice.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so let me look back at that chart because there's some kind of strange things here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So optimal and feasibility and feasible and unbounded pretty reasonable iteration limit reached, I guess you could probably figure that out time limit reached yeah that's okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's some kind of weird ones here failed not weird but bad you have any America exception and fails what should you do if you get a failed solution status, who would like to ponder a guess as to what to do if that happens.
Karen Fireman: look to see if he divided by zero.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Well, it could be, it could be an America exception but it might not be.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And, to be honest, where would you what would you look for a clue for that.
Charles Swanson: In the long.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Exactly in the log.
MS Analytics Class 2021: file Many people say call technical support as their first answer but technical support is going to say, please send us a copy of your log file, so you might as well just check there first because oftentimes it will tell you something about what caused it to fail.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay bad problem type.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Bad problem type is like you have a non linear programming model and you say solve with Mr LP or you have a general non linear model, you say solve with cutie.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You just trying to use a solver that doesn't work or if your problem has nominee or functions and indeed your variables and there's no algorithm to solve that bad problems type.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm getting into the weird ones now okay in feasible or unbounded this should never happen, but occasionally does solvers unable to find a feasible solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It but it can't it doesn't know for sure that it's in feasible, but it could also be unbounded because if there was a feasible solution that he might be able to escape to infinity this shouldn't happen and very.
MS Analytics Class 2021: very infrequently does and usually it's because they've made a mistake in implementing something.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That, if you get that you should definitely call technical support.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Conditional optimal it appears to converge to a point, but it fails to satisfy one of the termination criteria.
MS Analytics Class 2021: which are both 10 to the minus six in terms in feasibility and optimal here, it might get to a point where it's like 10 to the minus 50 so it's telling you that it's pretty close to being optimal but it's unable to make that with confidence Okay, or you set the value of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Her mouth myself best feasible, this is this is interesting one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So SAS sees their nominee or customers is falling into two camps one camp.
MS Analytics Class 2021: cares very dearly about the lagrangian multipliers.
MS Analytics Class 2021: wants to use them to kind of interpret how things would change if the model, the limits changing the model another class of customers could care less about two grand multipliers it just all they want is the optimal solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Occasionally, taking our little baby steps in solving a line search problem, it might stumble upon a solution that is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: better than that the declared optimal solution in terms of being feasible and having a better objective value but but doesn't satisfy the optionality conditions that allow it to terminate.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, in order to terminate and say optimal yes to satisfy the conditions that involved with drones multipliers okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But if you don't care about to the ground multipliers you don't want to use them together you'll be perfectly happy with a solution that was better than the optimal solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Usually just by a small amount, but it may not satisfy those conditions Okay, so if you're only interested in the optimal solution, and you get the best feasible.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Then you would take that and if you if you don't want that will see that the log file tells you how to output, the optimal solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so let's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's see, so I think we talked about most of these algorithm similar to what we've seen before log free.
MS Analytics Class 2021: by default one cell type is the parameter that allows you to either choose just the optimal solution or if you're Okay, with the best feasible.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Will kind of look in the log file and and just take it advice when it's presented the has said, this kind of technical and i've never used it it's just a way to try and do a more approximate search direction for problems that are really big.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so let's just solver a more of a business problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is the classic nonlinear programming model portfolio optimization model where you want to allocate the money in your portfolio to various stocks bonds savings account things like that in order to well you kind of have two objectives you want to large return with little risk.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But as anyone with banking will tell you that those are difficult to achieve, at the same time, because as.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You return goes up your risk also increases so most people have a kind of like a trade off or tolerance for one or the other but it's typically hard to quantify.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can maybe present them with two portfolios and say which do you prefer, but if you say what's your risk tolerance, they won't say like 7.3 right, so this this has a way to measure risk that is one of many could use, but again it's kind of difficult to quantify and so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In the case that I have kind of two objectives, making return high and risk, low I could either choose a target a limit on the risk and maximize my return or I could put a lower limit on my return and minimize my risk i've chosen to maximize the return.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so the two are bound on the risk.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what is the data for this problem so obviously, if I could predict the stock market I wouldn't be teaching this class I would be a rich man I would be on a beach somewhere.
MS Analytics Class 2021: With a corona no doubt.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But we can't really do that the best we can do is kind of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Based on its past behavior trying to estimate the kind of trend, and so we take that historical data to predict or calculate what we would say expect the return of the stocks to be.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And some measure of their interdependence in terms of the covariance the human was thinking of them as random variables.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we'll use those as the data for our problem, if you want to know more about the estimators that I use for these you can look in the course notes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But it was a paper called honey I shrunk the covariance matrix so it's not as funny as it sounds kind of technical, but it does have a funny name.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So thinking of our decision variables, as the proportions that we want to invest in different stocks and in this example i'm going to do, I have all stocks in a bond index fund.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So in the pie graph and i'm showing you that's a big chunk of my portfolio is the bond index fund, and you can think of that, as is this very safe investment.
MS Analytics Class 2021: OK so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The expected return.
MS Analytics Class 2021: can be calculated from the proportions and the expected returns of each sock it's just like a thinking about as a random variable calculating expectation.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The variance can be calculated from the covariance matrix by multiplying by the proportions and summing all those or you can think of this as.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As if you have the covariance matrix you hit it on the right and the left with the with the array of of proportions and that calculates the covariance.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so what i'm using the measure risk is the variance of the annual rate of return, so if it's if it's more variance it's more risky okay so actually not perfect measure but that's what we're going to use.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so i'll go in and i'll pull some real data, although it's a little bit dated data is dated.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I could update this every year but that's what let me update the course notes, every year, so it's going to be a little bit old but will the the model part is the same so let's let's look at this is called portfolio.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the the parameter that i'm going to use the tolerance for risk is 75 So what does that mean so again it's a variance of the annual rate of return so i'm looking at an annual rate of return somewhere between eight and nine okay give you some measure of the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: riskiness alright so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm going to call my socks and bonding those assets and Marie the data from two data sets expected returns and covariance matrix here's expected returns.
MS Analytics Class 2021: These are gonna oops sorry i'm in the wrong place and we go in libraries.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Here is expected returns, and these are going to look kind of large you can again look in the course notes, for whenever calculated and so forth, so I have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: About 3534 stocks in the bond index fund, and they have a variety of rates of return, if you if you work for one of these companies, and I just picked the wrong year to calculate your expected return i'm really sorry but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can you can you can recalculate the data yourself if you want a better answer.
MS Analytics Class 2021: here's the covariance matrix.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is a square matrix and it has.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The the the assets on the bottom and the top and it's symmetric right the covariance matrix is symmetric.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I could have I could have like stored it in less space that was kind of lazy and I figured you know it's not that much space, so it makes it easier to read anyway.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's the data for our problem, and most of them are positively correlated, but if you look at the bond index fund, which is at the bottom.
MS Analytics Class 2021: There are some negative correlations between the bond index fund and some of the other assets okay so back to the mall.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I read the data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I am using iterated read column, and because i'm iterating over the assets, I have to read the first data set first, so I can populate assets.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The model itself is pretty simple i'm calling the variables proportion.
MS Analytics Class 2021: index by assets they're non negative and they add up to one that makes some fractions of my portfolio, the only other constraints I have that variance constraint.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Where the covariance is attained by something over the assets, the covariance times the proportions less than or equal to my expected risk, which is a single value so i'm using a macro variable.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then my objective is the sum over the assets, the return times, the proportion so it's not a very complicated model right, it could be a large model that had lots of variables, if I have lots of assets, but in terms of the number of declaration statements it's not very big.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Some of the solid an apprentice solution and i'm just picking out the the ones that are in some real proportion.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A characteristic of nonlinear programming models.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's different than what we've seen in linear programming is if I said, greater than zero here that would likely be everything.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because remember it's getting close to the optimal solution, and so that turns out to be a lot of noise in their little tiny values for lots of variables.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I want to choose a value that's positive but not too big right so 10 to the minus worth or 10 to the minus 30 something like that, I mean if.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If it was so insignificant that you wouldn't really buy that stock that it was telling you to buy it, then that would be a good measure of the tolerance.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'll print out and also print the the variants constraint i'll print the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: duel Valley, because that should tell us about the trade off between risk and return.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I it's also reading a data set and making a pie graph is couldn't resist.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let's run this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it's really not taking this long.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's that's that's probably mostly just building the graph.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we have 35 variables down below to constraints and now you'll see, we have a nonlinear constraint, you can see that listed here nonlinear constraint and one linear constraint.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it didn't qualify, to be a quadratic programming model because it didn't have a quadratic objective in the near constraints so use the interior point algorithm.
MS Analytics Class 2021: found an optimal solution, we could say, well, when I now take that with a grain of salt, because I don't know if this is a well behaved problem turns out, this is one of those well behaved problems, this is the optimal solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Reduction returned about 9.35 not too bad.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Again, that was years ago when that wasn't so out of place optionality air below 10 minus six in feasibility below 10 to the minus six passes the test not too many iterations pretty quick here's our solution so like you saw in the paragraph, the bond index fund is about 40% of our portfolio.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we show some they have a lower rate of return again to try and minimize the risk.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's look at the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: variants constraint here, you can see that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We are tight against the variance found because the dual value of the lagrangian multipliers positive.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this is in some sense of measure of the trade off between.
MS Analytics Class 2021: risk and return this value here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'll show you a picture of that and say more precisely what I mean by that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Just to check the long, so we can see if we go to the the part of the log it's about optimization not drawing a graph.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Second purchase little more space now it's not giving me option okay so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Just to be totally fair here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's a section that talks about the problem characteristics, then it's famously using the author up model pretty solid, for the very first time, in the course and it didn't do anything.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's telling you that it's using analytic derivatives, because they're they're well behaved functions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's telling you how many threads it's using so nominee or programming is one of the most parallelizable areas in optimization.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because we're doing a lot of function evaluations, and this can be shared between different processors, so this is the most I can use on this machine, by default, I think.
MS Analytics Class 2021: There is there are parameters that you can define that asked can ask for more processes to be used, but I think the default is for so if this machine has eight we could tell it to us eight.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so, then you see the iteration log in every iteration.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Visibility we're trying to make it small optimal the error small and injected value big women this looks like an even better solution, it has an objective value of 12 why don't why don't we start with this before portfolio, this is fabulous.
Charles Swanson: Probably because it didn't meet the risk criteria.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Or it might have been.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Not a real portfolio, it might have been like the proportions could add it up to four something yeah it's it wasn't feasible.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, so, in addition to this being a large value, we also have to have this the small remember the optionality air if we choose our grounds multipliers well, which in this case is essentially that one with ron's multiplier.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Then we can make the small as well.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, and because if you believe me that this is one of those well salt models that has.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To try to minimize and since we're trying to maximize it, we have a concave objective and a convex feasible region.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so let me go ahead and show you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: here's the graph it's similar geographic seen before this red function is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The actual graph of the return versus the risks because we don't see that, when we solved the model, all we see is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Here we are, at 75 is our risk tolerance lagrangian multiplier is the slope of the tangent that line, so we can use it to predict.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Where the red line would be but we don't actually know unless we go ahead and solve as models, but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Since this is curved which is kind of the general thing you would see for a non linear model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The prediction is probably not going to be exact, but it can be very close if we don't try and very too much in the plus or minus dimensions, this is used for predictions in exactly the same way that the dual values are right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Having said that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We should practice.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To here's the data from the model that I saw.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So here's the dual value for the variance constraint, the risk constraint, if you rose, if you will, and the current value is 75.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's say i'm feeling a little intolerant today, so I want a portfolio that has less risk, so I want only 65 from my risk tolerance, what would you predict for the return for such a portfolio from the data here it's going to go down.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, could we do better than that can we can we actually predict, like a number.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so we multiply that by the change the change in this case is 10 what's actually minus 10 so we're going to go down, but so it will go down by We predict by point 358 so we would get something a little below nine so we could actually use that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: to predict the actual value of the return if we if we went crazy and we said, want to decrease to like 20 our prediction is probably not going to be great, but for a small change.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It will probably be a good prediction so exactly in the same way that we use dual values for when your program we using this for doing our predictions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All right, so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me return to this issue.
MS Analytics Class 2021: of a strategy to use for problems that might have multiple optimal solutions multiple local optimal solutions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the strategy is basically in a nutshell.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To use lots of different initial solutions that hopefully will generate different optimal solutions and then choose the best of those optimal solutions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And, well, it looks like it might be using a grid here, but in practice the grid might be feasible for two decision variables once we start getting into multiple dimensions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That just blows up way too quickly, so the strategy is more like a randomization strategy, so we might randomize over points that satisfy the bound constraints.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then use those as starting solutions and then pick the best one so it's it's kind of a Monte Carlo idea, and there is some sense in which.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The more points you try the better your probability of getting the optimal solution is, but since we don't know which points are attracted to the optimal solution we can't make that precise.
MS Analytics Class 2021: right we can't say Okay, I want an 85% chance of getting the optimal solution let's calculate how many trials, we can't we can't do that just the idea is the more trials, the better your chances of finding your you're more confident that that's the optimal solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But.
MS Analytics Class 2021: timmy is much happier about this so so timmy this this built in multi start option you didn't know timmy could do this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: He does that, when he gets excited so he is excited that there's at least a strategy for finding optimal solution, or at least finding a good solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it like I said it's kind of random it generates a bunch of starting points, it does have some additional intelligence built into it, in the sense that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It figures that two points that are really close to each together will probably go to the same optimal solution, so you don't want to choose to starting points there are too close together.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then, if you were to start really close to a solution that's already known to be an optimal solution, he probably just get sucked right into that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, in order to get more variety, it tries to choose points that aren't too close to each other in are too close to a known local optimal solution to is more intelligent than simple randomization but not much more intelligent.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it'll it'll show you the best one that it found.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it'll also allow you in case you wanted to use it as a starting solution for another model, it allows you to access the starting solution that was the best or led to the best solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it has its own long I could describe it to you, but it's easier if I just show it to you so i'll do a DEMO in just a second.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And i'll show you what that log looks like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They are some so when an option has options of its own they're called sub options, these are the sub options, you can control the number of starts actually the maximum number of starts that will use.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you want to get done by lunch, you can use Max time again here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The disc tall controls how close two points have to be to each other to be considered to close.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that's 10 to the minus five and it kind of you know, depends on your problem if that's a bigger small number it's pretty small, from my point of view.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For a decision variable so if we have an upper and lower bound it's easy to generate points uniformly between the upper and lower bounds.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you don't have an upper bound, or you don't have a lower bound it's really hard to generate a random number uniformly on an infinite area, so what it does, is it has kind of a fudge factor here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It says well i'll just like go up by 100 and down by 100 and i'll use that as my interval unless unless i've got an upper or lower bound it's better than that so centered at the initial value so it's just kind of a fudge factor here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: they've got to have some strategy, because people solve problems and they don't have bounds on some of their decision variables.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so i'm going to show you this for is for the US, a trend shipping model with the nonlinear objective so it's a it's a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's a linear leaking strange nonlinear programming model and we already know some things about it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what are we done so far, so we sold the linear programming version of this where we only had flights to Hawaii and that was 398 964 so we definitely want to do better than that, and in fact we found by solving this peaceful as linear approximation.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We found a value of 397 and the solution with our current Objective gave us a solution that's 398 oh 47 kind of the lay of the land so let's say a solvent nlp where can the objective value be on this number line.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Where do you where do you suspect, it would be.
MS Analytics Class 2021: over here to the right right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What I would say, if he sold it once you can expect it to be somewhere in between these.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But it might actually did down below this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because this is just a feasible solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It will never go below this value because that's a lower bound on the objective that we optimize.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it could go above the LP because we could have these local minima that are really crappy local minima.
MS Analytics Class 2021: OK, so the only thing we can say for sure is that it's going to be bigger than 397 847, but it could be just about anywhere in there, but the more trials, we try the closer we hope to be either to this, and hopefully beating it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let's let's try and see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I use a super randomized randomization here, even more random than random in the following sense that by oops sorry if I open this up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, this one is called.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Not in the right place again hold on just a SEC go it's five.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so it's us a trend shipment flights, what did I do the bad thing here we go.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right so it's similar to the models that we sell before this doesn't have those fancy variables in it it's just got.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The flow balance not negativity and it's got that nonlinear costs, and this is the exact nonlinear cost had those logarithms in it that's my associate that it had so what i'm going to do is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'll say solve with nlp multi start so that's the solver option sub options go in parentheses and i'm going to let it have 12 starts because i'm not sure exactly how long it'll take I don't want us to be sitting here for a long time.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And here's where the super randomized randomization comes in, Madam volunteer please.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Someone with with extensive numerical experience.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Harsh analytic skills i'm sure that describes most of you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, Jim is raising his hand Jim give me a random sounding see but different from the one I had before 19979 sevens are good sevens are really random okay so let's try that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, Jim and I have never met so we haven't discussed this random number previous to this, so I don't know what will happen, it could be just about anything so what it's going to do is going to solve at most 12 different starting points.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then, when it's done it'll show you the flights, because that was kind of the unique thing about this model and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we can look at the rest of them, if you want, but the flights are probably going to be the more interesting part so let's try.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and highlight that one line and we'll submit it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what are we competing against when we saw the Mr LP took about a minute.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we demanded an optimal solution, then it took about two minutes that's what we're kind of working against.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so it sounds something.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let's let's look at the bottom line first and see how well it did 398 120.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's not too bad it's not as it's not as good as the MIT which was 390 804 7.95 or something like that roughly.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It did 12 starts and each one generated a distinct optima so reinforcing our idea that this could be a poorly behaved model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But it didn't take that long, so you might want to give it a second chance let's look in the long.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Can idea what the what the log is for multi start, so it shows you for each one of the trials, so it starting from 12 different random points.
MS Analytics Class 2021: tells you what the outcome was in each case, how many iterations and the in the terminal in feasibility optionality era and objective value, you can see that the objective values that kind of all over the board some of them are worse than the LP.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For 409 is pretty bad.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The star indicates.
MS Analytics Class 2021: your initial values that we chose what initial values that we chose shoots.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I don't recall choosing the initial values, also been zeros okay so that's what the asterisk is for.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Well, to be fair.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And to give someone else a chance, maybe we should try a different random seed.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Who can choose a more random random seed.
MS Analytics Class 2021: No one's no one's feeling very perky tonight to let me uh.
MS Analytics Class 2021: huh.
MS Analytics Class 2021: 200,000 doesn't sell random at all let's see that might even be a little bit too long, but we'll.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Try it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay let's see what happens.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, since it's generating pseudo random numbers it's going to choose a different sequence right, it is likely to choose different points 398 121 is that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's pretty comparable so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And again, to be fair, again, we could probably do this six or eight more times I don't think we should.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But each time we might get a different solution and, eventually, you might get as good as or better than the best solution that we found by the Mr LP what is important here to remember, though, is that, if we look at this chart here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When we solved it as an EMI LP.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We got a bound, we got a kind of a quality guarantee right, so we got a solution that this is this good, and we know we couldn't be worse than this, so we got a an interval here we can calculate.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The relative about on the relative error here if I just using the Multi start option there's no boundaries just a solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so you can't ever say you know i'm within 10% of optimal or 1% of optimal.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You just the more trials that you make, the better the solution is and, in many cases, if you're just trying to say do.
MS Analytics Class 2021: better than you did the last month or improve your result by 10% over last month, you can do those kinds of things, but you can't get a kind of quality guarantee on the solution.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so let's see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me show you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A model here, this is a model that came up in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When I taught a similar course at a bank, this is it was an onsite version of the course and oftentimes will tailor our course to the client.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so they gave us a type of problem that they were interested in solving and gave us some data for a toy version of the problem just to kind of as a test the concept.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we could show them how the how pocket model worked with the syntax was like and then let's get into your model and see what it what it does.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the model is kind of dated by now, but it used to be, when you went into a bank, they would have kind of a sandwich board this inside the door, they would tell you what kind of rates, you could expect, depending on how much you're willing to deposit.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They don't have those signs anymore, they use the signs for other things now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But they call these board rates, because they would be on a board.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They also said they were interested in generating the word rates for.
MS Analytics Class 2021: in different regions so as a national bank and they had didn't have to have exactly the same rates in each region.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They were also interested in a promotional rate which would attract even more demand demand is kind of like investment in this context dollars.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And in order to attract customers of all types, they said that the promotional rate had to be between the highest board rate, so the track the wealthiest customers and the Federal funds rate, so there weren't losing money hand over fist okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now, there were some other constraints that they needed in the model we wanted the board rates to be increasing so, in other words.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you have more invested, you should get a better rate of return right otherwise it'd be a disincentive to increase your investment.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And they also wanted the rates to be not too far from the previous month's rates, so the previous month's race would be no.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And they want to deviate more than a little bit from those so those would be kind of like bounds on the decision variables if the decision variables are the board rates.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so that's most of them all right there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's two other things.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They wanted to maximize profit, not surprisingly, being a bank, and they also wanted a constraint on the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The total demand.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, this would be the total number of dollars invested right over all the regions are all the different they call them tears of customers being the different amounts of or intervals for investment.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so let me try and describe to you how how this all came to be so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They estimated the demand and again the demand is it being an investment amount in dollars from the board rates and the promotional rates and they use regression models so what they did was.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So here are the different tiers here are the what defines the different tiers these are you can think of as proposed board rates there's a promotional rate that's bigger than the highest board rate.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In each of these tears they divided their customers into three segments based on different customer characteristics and then use the regression model to estimate.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Not the man, the not the demand, but the log of the demand okay so as log linear regression, so the regression coefficients would multiply the board rate and the promotional rate, so there are two coefficients there and the intercept.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And those are input to our model They ran predictive modeling First they come for those coefficients and so those predictions were like a function from the regression to estimate the demand in each customer segment is input for our model right, so why is it a non linear model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because we're estimating the log of the demand, so they get the demand we exponential rate that and then they get the total demand over this here we some over the segments.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so we get sums of exponential of the regression models and it's nonlinear, and this is the way we calculate the profit.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It factors in the demand and also times the difference in the rates so if the rate goes up the demand goes up, but this difference goes down so there's a trade off between how much we make, and how much is invested Okay, so I don't want to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I always want to kind of convey the general idea of this model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so let me show you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's going to SAS here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is called board rates.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And i'll show you the data real quick, so the data is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Sorry down here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's in board rates and promo rates So these are going to be the regression coefficients so I go down to the libraries.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For example, is board rates so there the toy problem had three regions each reason had 70 years.
MS Analytics Class 2021: man had seven wives each wife had seven cats no it's not quite the same problem, and then I have the the coefficients for the first customer segment.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Second customer segment and the third customer segment and as well as the current board rate, so you can think of that as being the last month, we wanted to determine the new one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so there and there's similar data for the promotional rates.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what are bouncing constraints.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So before, is it bon.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Implicit variables here are going to use calculate from the board rates in the promo rates using their aggression models, the demand in each region and tier and the promotional demand in each region and they aggregated the cheers for the promotional demand.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So our variables are the board rates by region in tier and the promotional rates by regions and remember we didn't want to make it more than the federal funds rate, which is, in this instance about 520 5%.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so let's look at the constraints and then i'm going to run the model and see what happens.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the the board rates within a region are increasing or not decreasing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They are not too far from the previous months, plus or minus something they called the the rate deviation, which is, I think.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Point five but see if that's right yeah oh fine.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A small number.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The constraints, it says the promotional rate has to be the as big as the highest word rate, the total demand constraint and our objective value so both the total demand constraint in the objective are nonlinear okay so it's not linear programming model it's going to solve it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And because i'm talking about values in the in the millions, and and more i'm going to use a format that makes it easier for us to see what the values are.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Go ahead and solve it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this is model self pretty nicely.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's see so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Again, so you look at this and you can't tell what it is we look down here, and you can see that it's 165 million.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the demand is 6.4 billion, I think that the lower bound on the demand is six point.
MS Analytics Class 2021: see what back in the code real quick let's see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah so you probably should have used the macro variables that huh.
MS Analytics Class 2021: slap in the face.
MS Analytics Class 2021: right there 6.35.
MS Analytics Class 2021: million, and so one of the things you might notice about the solution is that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's not tight on the demand constraint, which might be a little puzzling either they weren't very careful when they estimated that or they just don't know there they don't know their data very well.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But, at any rate, you can see that it says best feasible and if we go into the log file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It will tell us that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To return the locally optimal solution we can set the cell type option to zero.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we could try that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we say just cell type equals zero as a solver option so type equals zero.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and try and solve it again.
MS Analytics Class 2021: what's pretty different different value.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The profit and the demand the demand is closer to being tight, but I think our other prophet was like 160 something.
MS Analytics Class 2021: mean that's that's not chump change there that's like 10s of millions of dollars, what do you think is going on here is this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: mean, is it possible for a nominee or programming model to have two good solutions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Well isn't that right we don't know this model as well behaved this could have lots of different local optimal solutions So what can we try will be a good strategy to use in this case.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Should we just we just take the one that has like 5 million less profit and is go with that.
problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is there is there a mathematical answer to my question.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is there is there a strategy that we could use to try to guard against the cake, the possibility that might have multiple optimal solutions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's a solver option for that isn't there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You could use the Multi start.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's just try more.
MS Analytics Class 2021: start.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's kind of tailor made for the situation that we're in let's see what happens.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, so what you're saying the runner right again running in writing in SEC, and then compare, you have the same for the answer that yeah i'll take a probiotic the best yeah so let's see what it comes up with.
MS Analytics Class 2021: See.
MS Analytics Class 2021: didn't look like it did very well let's look at the log and see it didn't do as well as the best one we found the first time.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That doesn't look good.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it says generated 4800 sample points and discard them all, because of difficulty and function evaluation, the only problem that it solved up the melody was the one that we started from zero.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'll tell you what's going on here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we kind of ran into this and we didn't know what was going on, either, but we're not smarter, now that we know what the answer is, if you go back and look at the code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this should be kind of an object lesson, if you if you do end up solving non linear programming models.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We are bouncing our decision variables.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we have no negativity on our board rates and then we have those rate deviations the board rates are fine, the promotional rates are upper bounded by the Federal funds rate.
MS Analytics Class 2021: they're only lower bounded by another decision variable.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And if you can check and see that the pre solver doesn't generate lower bounds for the meter so when we get to the Multi start is generating random values between minus 100.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As a percentage and the Federal funds rate now if you generate a uniform and in variable from minus 102.05 the overwhelming probability is you're going to get a negative number.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the regression models weren't designed to predict the objective value for a negative interest rate and so it's likely that they're blowing up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, so the reason we're not able to use the Multi start is because it's as simple as we don't have bounds on our variables and if we were to go and just add even simple trivial upper bounds like non negativity.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It would probably behave much better let's try it, we could come up with something better, but certainly zero is the lower bound.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Taking a little more time because it's actually having to solve those other optimization models to look and see what it was able to do.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it's better at 171 the demand is tight, we can look at the log and see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That it found you know kind of range of different solutions, but we're definitely getting better results that we got from the solving at once.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so and again again that the if you look at their results it'll also tell you about how many different solutions and 100 starts 60 different and depending on the time you know we could potentially try and do it again with the different seed, for example.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so then just to give you an idea of solving a little bit more complicated model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So last thing i'm going to do is i'm just going to touch on a class of problems that you might actually come across.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that is so, what is a characteristic about all the problems of self tonight.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Well, they all have many are, yes, but they were designed to be solved by the nlp solver so they're all smooth okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: prakash model or, more generally, SAS or has procedures that are designed to solve problems that aren't smooth.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And let me show you a couple of examples of some problems that aren't smooth and this is a bonus Jonas, this is not in the notes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And i'll explain why, in just a minute.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we can solve any lps with.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Thousands or 10s of thousands of decision variables, but everything needs to be smooth.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In the version of SAS or that you have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's a procedure called up lso for local search optimization that solves general nonlinear problems they can have both continuous and integer variables.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But it can only handle problems up to about 100 decision variables, so that problem that we just talked about would fit that criteria, because we only had.
MS Analytics Class 2021: seven times 320 maybe 25 decision variables, although the problem they ultimately want to solve it, that was a toy version of might have been too big for that, but that was a smooth problem, and let me show you some examples of non smooth optimization models that might actually run into.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and trying to show you enough that running out of time because myra turns into a pumpkin at 930.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And when we have to come back next week, nobody wants to do that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so here's some examples, the first one that i'm not going to demonstrate for you is, you have a lot of kind of transaction level records.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you want to come up with a fraud detection model so that looks at different characteristics four types of transactions and wants to flag, some of them is potentially fraudulent they can investigate Okay, so they have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That big test set they had all this data and they know which ones were fraudulent and which ones weren't and they want to come up with a rule.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That may involve some threshold values like is it transferring this much money or more, you know with other various different characteristics, about the transaction.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And they use that as a test set and then, as their objective they minimize.
MS Analytics Class 2021: weighted combination of false positives and negatives come up with business rule that flag some things as being possibly project.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so like regression, you have a test set for your model you come up with the coefficients and then you use it, more general, but this is a large data set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But the variables would be the special values so it's not too large in the sense of number of variables, so it would be a candidate for this what's not smooth about this is the number of weighted false positive and negatives is not as smooth function.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, so you change your threshold.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If there's an additional false positive or false negative then it's a step it's not a smooth transition, the one that I am going to show you is this kind of a smaller version of that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we have a simpler business rule.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To process credit application So are we either accept the application or we don't just based on someone's agent income Okay, so our business rule has.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Its current value if you're more than 30 years old, and you have more than $40,000 of income and you have the best credit rating credit ratings.
MS Analytics Class 2021: One is the best then we'll say yes, give a lower credit rating, you have to have to meet a higher age threshold and so for the different credit ratings, we have these different criteria for which we can say yes, will extend credit to give you a mortgage or whatever else it is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let's say that over time, as we use this it's kind of gone stale.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, because our customer base may have changed slightly different maybe we're more interested in seeing if we can kind of lower the age threshold make more credit available to younger people.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so we can kind of take this rule, and in some sense kind of parameters it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: By two parameters called agent income or age one Inc one, and so our current plan would have 34 age and 44 income right and we're interested in extending it to lower ages.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and possibly lower incomes alright, so this is our business rule based on these two values your threshold values and so we're going to try and treat these age and income parameters as decision variables.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we have some constraints, for the model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: At least 50% of the credit applicants that we accept to legally, yes, should have the highest rating.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so we can kind of control that by setting higher values for the agent income.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And at most 25% of credit applicants should have more than $100,000 do on their current mortgage that's part of our data set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we have their age, their income their credit rating how much they currently oh on their mortgage right so different things that you would use to determine credit.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, and so our objective is going to be to maximize the number of acceptances so again, we have like a test set for data we go back and look at some some numbers from recent history.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we try and change these rules so that we're generous we maximize the number of acceptances subject to satisfy in these constraints.
MS Analytics Class 2021: OK so again it's an optimization model to decision variables agent income to constraints bounds on the decision variables.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And our objective is, as the number of credit acceptances it's not a smooth objective right we change the thresholds, the number of acceptance is going to change by plus or minus one a whole number so it's not smooth.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Not in your release of SAS or but in more current releases of SAS or this can be done inside profit model in your version of SAS or, it has to be done using the SAS procedure called.
MS Analytics Class 2021: prop up lso OK so i'm going to show you a version of this using prop up lso.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And i've also included the program that you would use for a more recent version of SAS or So you can see that it's quite a bit simpler.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'm just going to run this i'm not going to have a lot of time this to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: go into great detail, but I wanted to show you that we did have a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: episodes business rule lso the threshold one is the one that works in more recent versions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I define the business rule to depend on the parameters i'm going to produce some tables of what the current values do display that in a format that makes it easy to see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm using sashes routine that allows you to define user functions proc FC MP, to define the objective and the constraint functions and then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It was just the wrong one sorry if I wanted.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To this is the one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is the one that uses prop up lso.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so it's kind of kind of clumsy and the way that you have to define the functions it's not as as easy to use this pocket model, but in more recent version of pocket model, you can do this, internally and call it as a solver called the black box solver.
MS Analytics Class 2021: just wanted to show you that you can solve these types of problems using SAS or.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so this is what the situation looked like before we did the optimization in terms of here the ratings.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And there's the, the number of acceptances.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can see how many of them, we have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Total.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Also, by breaking it down by mortgage totals.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So if I look at the values here the ones the highest rating was supposed to be at least half, and it is, but this was supposed to be less than or equal to 25% and it's not raw free offering credit to too many people that have big mortgages.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, so our current solution doesn't even satisfy the constraints that we have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is using the prop up lso.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It finds the values of agent income again because it's a non linear model and, in particular, not smooth we can't guarantee that this is the best, but this is the best that it was able to find and it incorporates many starting points, just like the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The multi start option.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this is our new solution for acceptances broken down by rating.
MS Analytics Class 2021: By frequency.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So where is happening here not sure what the witnesses.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Did I did the thing I always do a missy.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm not sure what I did.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's 930 so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But hopefully I give you a taste of solving problems.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Obviously solving these problems is hard Okay, so I will have office hours on Monday and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But be aware that if you talk about your project during office hours, everyone will see it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What you might want to do is try and arrange a zoom meeting between your group and me a private zoom meeting and i'm happy to do that I have lots of availability, so I would suggest that you just.
MS Analytics Class 2021: offer up a couple of times you know i'll let you know if someone has already taken that time.
MS Analytics Class 2021: let's stop there.
Okay.
Zuberi, Bilal: Thank you, Professor.
Charles Swanson: Thank you, Professor Thank you.
Karen Fireman: Thanks very much.
Coleman, Clay: Thank you good night.
Lee Rainwater: Thank you, great class.
Jordan Gross: Thank you, Professor.